=== PAGE 1 ===
SAN JOSE AMATEUR ASTRONOMERS

BULLETIN

JULY-AUGUST 1975

Outgoing Officers:
President: Tom Mungall        257-3262
Vice-president: Brian Day   266-8690
Treasurer: Gerry Rattley    732-0202
Secretary: Norman Wild      252-8966

New Board Members:Dave Erickson Gerry Rattley,
                  A.B. Gregory  Jim Vermilion
                  Bob Malm      Norman Wild
                  Debbie Moore  Jack Zeiders
                  Tom Mungall

SPECIAL NOTE: This issue of the Bulletin is the combined July-August edition. There
will be no more bulletins until September. All activities for the next two months are
listed in this issue.

ANOTHER SPECIAL NOTE: Be sure to get your $14 and blue card from Sky and Telescope to
Gerry Rattley as soon as possible. Otherwise there might be a delay in your receiving
of your next issues of Sky and Telescope. If you have already paid and have received
another blue card, disregard it. If you are a new member, of course you will not have
a blue card at this time.

RECENT ACTIVITIES: At the June general meeting the board members whose terms expire in
1977 were elected. They are Debbie Moore, Tom Mungall, Jack Zeiders and Norman Wild.
Members whose terms expire in June 1976 are Dave Erickson, Dr. Gregory, Bob Malm,
Gerry Rattley and Jim Vermilion. The officers for 1975-1976 were selected by the new
board at their June meeting and will be installed at the July 12 picnic (see coming
events). Bob Malm then presented recent contributing members, who donate money in
excess of their regular dues, deeds to various celestial objects owned by the club.
Debbie Moore has earned an additional deed and will be given M 33 to go along with
her ownership of our galaxy. Incidentally, Debbie has informed us that although she
owns our galaxy, we will be allowed to remain in our homes, rent-free. Jack Zeiders
will be deeded the only galaxy to be found on the Skalnate Pleso charts in Ursa Minor.
Its NGC number escapes me at the moment? The remainder of the meeting was spent by
Joe Gilbert who lectured on a theory of his which questioned the constancy of the
velocity of light. He indicated that experiments concluing one way or the other are
not final in their interpretations. Joe has suggested an experiment to a Foothill
College professor which may decide this question once and for all.

The star party on June 7 at the club's site on Mt.Umunhum was well attended. At first
the breeze and sky conditions near the horizon left something to be desired, but these
improved as time went on. Around eleven P.M. an apparent fog bank was rising in the
east but some of this dissipated by midnight and proved to be a rather bright Milky
Way. Your editor was able to try out his new 8" f/6.8 reflector at high elevations
for the first time and was generally pleased with the brightness of the Sagittarius
clusters and nebulae. M 8, the Lagoon Nebula was especially impressive. Among objects
viewed by those present were the galaxies M 51, M 81, M 82, M64 (the "Black-eye"), NGC
4565 (the famous edge-on), some Leo and Virgo galaxies; the globular clusters M 13,
M 3, M 5, M 92, M 80, Omega Centauri; the planetary nebulae M 57, NGC #34I in Corvus,
M97 ("the Owl"), the dumbbell; the galactic clusters M 6, M 7, M 25, M 11 (perhaps the
nicest of them all); and the emission nebulae M 8 (the Lagoon), M 20 (the Trifid), M 16
(Omega). Easy doubles to be split were Mizar, j Leonis, ɣ Virginis, ξ Scorpii, € lynae,
(the double-double) and Alberio (β Cygni), the most famous colored double.

One week later, four observers visited Mt. Umunhum for the second of the back-to-back
star parties at this site. Conditions were good, especially when the first quarter
moon set around midnight. The weather was warm and comfortable.

EDITORIAL: There has been some controversy surrounding the Mt. Umunhum site as would
be expected for a compromise site (one near town). Mt. Umunhum is certainly not the
perfect site, but it was not expected to be. Darker skies can be found at Coe and else-
where, though, in the opinion of your editor, the disadvantages of Mt. Umunhum have
been exaggerated - mostly by those who have viewed from this site only once or twice.
I have in mind the "wind-tunnel" effect which has only been a real problem once, earlier
in the year. There have actually been times at Coe when the wind was a greater source
of trouble. It is your editor's opinion that Mt. Umunhum certainly has its value. It
is convenient, especially on weekends when the state parks are crowded with campers.
Irritating headlights belong only to members of the club and therefore can be control-
led, Perhaps of greatest importance, if the San Jose Amateur Astronomers are ever to
obtain a permanent site for an observatory, there is no evidence that we could do better
for convenience, relatively low cost and friendly relations with the land lord. Ask
any of the older members to relate to you the ordeals the club has gone through in the
past with regards to observatory sites. The editor believes that when lease renewal
time arrives, we should not discard the Mt. Umunhum site without very thoughtful
consideration. The club cannot afford to invest over $500 every year or so in a new
site.

=== PAGE 2 ===
-2-

COMING EVENTS: July 4, 1975: Holiday-NO ACTIVITY.

July 12, 1975, at Levin Park in Milpitas at 3:30 P.M.: Combination picnic, installation of officers meeting and star party. To hold down costs members are asked to bring their own food and drink. To get to Levin Park cross the Dumbarton Bridge heading east and go through Milpitas on Calaveras Road; start to climb into the hills and go a mile until you see the sign directing you to turn left to Levin park. There will be signs out directing you to the exact spot which is at the Sandy Wool portion of the park, near the restrooms, down by the lake at the north end. Last year's picnic was held at this spot. Bar-B-Que pits ar/e very small so be prepared. After the installation of the new-un-identified officers, there will be a special (very short) meeting for the purpose of amending the club's constitution. These are mostly to clarify some of the wording and to remove possible loop-holes. Bring your scopes for after dark.

July 19, 1975 at the K-Mart on Blossomhill Road: A lunar public star party.

August 1, 1975 at Olinder Center at 7:30 P.M.: General meeting. Vick Nikolashin will demonstrate and discuss the version of the Schmidt camera which works well without a corrector plate. This will be followed by a slide presentation by Norman Wild of the Riverside Telescope Makers Convention this May at which two of our members took away prizes. Astro-slides by the members will be welcom ed to fill out the meeting.

August 9, 1975 at Henry Coe State Park: Star party.

August 16, 1975 at Mt. Umunhum site: Second lunar (first quarter) star party. These star parties (lunar that is) are an experiment to see how much interest can be generated for parties at this time of the moon.

NEW MEMBERS: Steve Butler -- 391-A Union Ave, Campbell, Ca. 95008 ---- 371-9508
Jack K. Meyer - 1415 Lost Acre Drive - Felton, Ca. 95018 --335-7318
Dave Ambrose -- 1755 El Codo Way San Jose, Ca. 95124 --- 269-8262
William Briske- 1623 Jupiter Dr. Milpitas, Ca. 95035 --- 262-4184

TECHNICAL NOTES: Jim Van Nuland indicates the following brief occultations of stars by the moon. Times may vary up to a minute or so.: July 13, 0408 UT 55 Leonis (6th mag.) P.A. 84°; July 13, 0431 UT, 57 Leonis (5.7 mag.), P.A. 134°. A reappearance: July 30, 1043 UT, Pi Piscis (5.6 mag.) , P.A. 179°. (NOTE: UT = Universal Time; P.A. = position angle.)Small telescopes ought to be able to see the preceeding; use about 100 power. For further discussion see Jim Van Nuland.

WELL, TH-THAT'S ALL FOLKS, Have an enjoyable and safe summer.

*OR IF YOU ARE COMING UP HIGHWAY 13,
TURN RIGHT AT THE EXIT WHICH LEADS
TO DOWNTOWN MILPITAS (MT. VICK--ALEVISO
ROAD TO LEFT OF FREEWAY, CALAVERAS
ROAD TO RIGHT OF FREEWAY).

FOR SALE: 8 inch diameter aluminum tubing, 5 foot lengths, $8.00 each.
Lensless Schmidt camera, 16" F.L., F3.2,$150 or so.
Don Mcglauflin 923-5344