=== PAGE 1 ===
SAN  JOSE  AMATEUR  ASTRONOMERS

                                          BULLETIN
SEPTEMBER 1975                                        Bob Malm, ED
New Officers:
President: Tom Mungall          257-3262        Board Members:Dave Erickson  Jim    Vermilion
Vice-President: Norm Wild       252-8966                       A. B. Gregory  Jack Zeiders
Treasurers:Gerry Rattley        732-0202                       Debbie Moore
Secretary: Bob Malm             941-1343                       (Officers are also members of
                                                                the board.)

SPECIAL NOTE: Due to limitations of time and space I will attempt to cram a lot of material
into one page. If it seems awkward or I have left anything out, please bear with me.

THE COMET: As most of us know, Douglas Berger of the Eastbay Astronomical Association was
co-discoverer of Comet 1975-h.                                                 What SKY AND
TELESCOPE doesn't know (YET) is that most if not all of the members of his discovery group
were members of the San Jose Amateur Astronomers! If I have my information right, the first
photograph of Comet Kobayaschi-Berger-Moore-Rattley-Zeiders-McGlaughlin-----------Milon was
taken by Jack Zeiders. SKY AND TELESCOPE (which was out-scooped by ASTRONOMY on the comet)
should be so informed.

NOVA CYGNI: It was last evening (Aug. 29) around 8:40 P.M. PDT. I had decided that it was
time to do a little viewing from my back yard. The relatively smog-free day promised a
good sky. I took one step out the back door and glanced up to see if this proposal was
correct. I immediately noticed something wrong with the tail of the    Swan. It was longer
and bent! Upon further examination I noticed that the appearance of Cygnus was this way
because of an extra second magnitude star a few degrees north and east of Deneb. When it
didn't move -- I thought that it might be an    airplane -- I thought, "Nova!"  Calls to
Emmet Murphy and Dr. Gregory convinced me that I was destined for immortality! I would go
down (the tubes?) along with Galileo, Herschel, Tombaugh, Berger ---------- and Milon,
and other great celestial discoverers! I again reached for the telephone and dialed the
number of that branch of the Smithsonian Institute    responsible for discoveries. My
heart beat faster as the'phone rang on the other end. Then there was an answer. My moment
was at hand!! A voice on the other end of the line answered and said, "This is a recording.
A new nova of R.A. 21h 10m declination +48° was discovered in Japan (approximatly twelve
hours    ago).' I put down the 'phone, walked over to a wall cabinet and reached for a
flask of whiskey.

RECENT ACTIVITIES: The July 12 picnic was not too well attended but those who partook of the
food, flew kites and viewed celestial objects afterwards, had a good time. The recent July
activity (a K-Mart public    star party) was not very successful. My memory is playing tricks
but I belive that the weather    was to blame.

The August 1 general meeting was an interesting one. Vick Nikolashin delivered a rather
technical talk on the planetless Schmidt camera and related subjects. It was well received.
Slides of the Riverside Telescope Convention taken by Norm Wild and May 24 Lunar Eclipse
taken by your editor completed the program.

The August 9 star party at Coe was another good one. A new area was made available to us by
the ranger there which was free from camper's lights. The northern sky was not obstructed as
had been feared. City  lights were not particularly objectionable though there is less
shelter from the wind. The officials at Coe want to make this area available to astronomical
groups on a permanent basis and are willing to level it and do other developmental work on
it with this goal in mind. The ranger also mentioned that some of the remote area in the
Park would be made available from time to time for overnight astronomical work.

The Lunar star party at the Mt. Umunhum site was attended by perhaps ten viewers and, despite
the    fact that the moon set rather late, a good time was had by all. Jim Van        Nuland
viewed several occultations during the eve ning. The bell which would ring periodically was
Jim's alarm, alerting him to the fact that a moon occultation was about to occur.

COMING EVENTS: Sept. 5 1975, 7:30 P.M. at Olinder center.    General meeting. Joe Perry
                      will talk and show slides on his 32" telescope and observatory plans. Time
                      permitting, Vick Nikolashin will talk and exhibit a working
                      model of a Pioneer 10 telescope. He delivered a similar talk to the recent
                      WAA Convention in San Francisco. After the regular meeting a special meet-
                      ing will be called for the purpose of making changes to the constitutional
                      by-laws of the club.  See page two of this bulletin.

               Sept. 6, 1975, Mt. Umunhum.  Star party. If you are interested in helping
               put up the gate to protect our site from motorcycles, etc., come at 5:30 P.M.

               Sept. 13, 1975 at the K-Mart in East San Jose. 7 P.M. to 10:30 P.M. Public
               star party. This K-Mart is located at  McKee and Jackson.

               Oct. 3, 1975: General meeting. Dr. Reise of the ASP will be guest speaker.
               Oct. 10, 1975: Board meeting at Dr. Gregory's home.

=== PAGE 2 ===
CONSTITUTIONAL REVISION:                                     August, 1975

Purpose:      Clarification of certain articles of current by laws and
              addition to same.

Ammendment:   #1 Ref. Article 5, titled "Officers", section 1.

To Strike:    The words "Officers of the Corporation shall beome honorary
              members of the Board of Directors with full membership
              priviliges during their tenure in office. The Board of
              Directors may create such additional office or offices as
              it deems necessary and elect their officers thereof.

To Add:       The words "The Board elects the Officers from its own Board
              Membership, should an office be impossible to fill from a
              Board Mebership, the Board shall have the option to nominate
              a person from the general membership. For election, two-thirds
              of the total Board Membership will be required. This person
              if elected, will become an active Board Member in addition
              to the normal (9) members.

Amendment:    #2 Ref. Article 4, section, titled "Directors".

To Strike:    The words "monthly, regular".

To Add:       To read "Meetings of the Board".
              "The Board of Directors shall meet at the boards discretion,
              either monthly or bi-monthly, at a location specified at the
              preceeding board meeting. Special meetings of the Board of
              Directors may be called by the President, or by any two
              Board Members, at any time.

Amendment:    #3 Ref, Article 4.

To Add:       New section: Section 7.

To Add:       The words for title "Qualification for Board Membership".

To Read As Follows: "To be qualified for nomination to the Board, a
                     member must have (1) one year active membership
                     or attend 3 board meetings if bi-monthly or 6
                     board meetings if monthly. Termination of board
                     membership will be automatic if member misses (3)
                     three consecutive meetings without notification
                     to the board:.

                     Sincerely,

                     San Jose Amateur Astronomers

                     Thomas Mungall
                     President
