=== PAGE 1 ===
the san jose
                astronomical association
                                         sjaa
                                        John P. Gleason
                                        Editor
July '77                                241-1058

                    C A L E N D A R  O F  E V E N T S

July 1: No General Meeting at Olinder Center this month. Picnic, July 9.

July 2: Los Gatos Red Cross, 7:00 P.M.

July 9: Ed Levin Park, 3:00 P.M. till midnight.
    The installation of the new officers and club picnic will be held this
year at Ed Levin Park. Bring your own food and drink, the club will provide
the reserved picnic area and will maintain the barbecue pits for your food.
To get to Ed Levin Park, take Interstate 680 North and exit East on Calaveras.
Follow Calaveras to Downing Road. Turn left onto Downing and follow it into
the park. Look for the SJAA signs. BRING YOUR TELESCOPES!

July 16: Sanborn Canyon Park, Dusk till dawn F.E.A.O.
    This months Field Expedition for Astronomical Observation will be at
Sanborn Canyon Park in the Saratoga foothills. Several members have used this
new park for general observing and have found it highly desireable as a close
to town observing site. Take Highway 9 towards Big Basin as you would if you
were going to the Skyline site. Turn left onto Sanborn Road (just before the
bridge directly across from Saratoga Springs), drive on Sanborn until you come
to the 1st gate at the park. This gate opens to a road which will bring you
to the parking lot for the overnight campers. All other gates into the park
will be locked.

July 23: Los Gatos Red Cross, 7:00 P.M.

Aug. 5: Olinder Center, 7:30 P.M.
    Dave Nakaji will present a lecture about Black Holes

                    B O A R D  E L E C T I O N S

    At the June 3rd general meeting of the SJAA, the following members were
elected to the associations board of directors: Jack Zeiders, Jim Van Nuland,
John Gleason, Cathy Pinhero, and Bob Fingerhut. The following board members
are continuing for another year; Dr. Gregory, Allan Meyer, Gerry Rattley,
and John Rhodes.


                    M E M B E R S H I P  R E N E W A L S

    Members! Be sure to give your yellow Sky and Telescope renewal cards,
along with your $15 membership fee to John Rhodes, Treasurer. $10 for junior
membership, under 18. This will be the last month you can renew your membership
without the penalty of missing an issue of Sky and Telescope magazine and the
monthly bulletin.

=== PAGE 2 ===
news
    notz
                                         sjaa


    We are seeking old club records -- Secretary's notes, Bulletin's
(Pre Oct. 74), Announcements and especially any records of constitutional
revisions, including that of 1975, for which we have misplaced the official
copy. Contact Jim Van Nuland, 371-1307, who can make copies if you wish to
keep your originals. We are trying to establish a club history book.

    The June 18 F.E.A.O. was again clouded out. The sky seemed to be clearing
about sunset, but by dark it had clouded over, never to break again. The dozen
or so who showed enjoyed a good Taurus session in John Rhodes' W.M.R. (Mobile
Meeting Room). The Lexington School site has somewhat high horizions and
various lights on the school, but has promise as it is protected from both
city and highway lights and has lots of paved area for setting up telescopes.

    At approximately 1:55 A.M. Saturday morning the 18th of June a spectacular
fireball was observed by members of the SJAA. Four of us, Norman Neinchel,
Robert Fingerhut, Richard Rodgers, and myself were on Mt. Hamilton undertaking
astrophotography behind the 36" refractor. What began as a bright meteor about
40 degrees above the eastern horizion, suddenly exploded into a tremendous
blue-white fireball. The fireball illuminated the entire eastern sky, our
observing site experiencing daylight for about 2 seconds. Needless to say we
were temporarily blinded and somewhat startled. The meteor ended in a beautiful
red-orange trail extending some 50 degrees across the eastern sky and ending
about 30 degrees above the northeastern horizion. The trail remained visible
for 60 seconds.
    Jack Zeiders and Kevin Medlock were at Fremont Peak enjoying unusualy
dark skys when their observations were interupted suddenly by a brilliant
flash to the east. They observed the meteor trail in the trees for about
2 minutes.
    Don McClauflin was driving ten miles south of Pine Ridge when the fire-
ball fell directly overhead. Blinded by the tremendous explosion of light,
Don pulled to the side of the road where he and Nancy observed the meteor
trail for about 5 minutes. From these reports we can only guess at the visual
magnitude of this event. It surely was brighter than a full moon (-12) but
dimer than the sun (-26). I was taking an astrograph of the Trifid nebula
when the fireball occured and the sky background was fogged on the film. None
of the eyewitnesses to this event have ever seen anything this bright before,
perhaps -15 is a good estimate of visual magnitude. It is surely something
that we will never forget. Next time I'll wear my sunglasses.

                    A D S  I N F I N I T U M

WANTED--6 or 8 inch scope in good order, for potential new member. Will
        consider simple or fancy mount. Contact Jim Van Nuland, 371-1307

FOR SALE--1¼" Eyepieces, K, 18mm, K, 12mm, Or. 9mm, Or. 6mm, $12 each.
        Contact John Gleason, 241-1058
