=== PAGE 1 ===
SAN JOSE AMATEUR ASTRONOMERS, INC.

Monthly Bulletin

JULY, 1970

President: Prudy E. Bell, 244-1096
Vice-Pres: Dave Erickson, 269-4838
Secretary: Walt Schoendorf, 269-2764
Treasurer: Emmet Murphy, 287-6378

ANNUAL BANQUET

Date: Saturday, 11 July
Time: 7 PM (no-host happy hour 6:30 PM in cocktail lounge)
Location: Berry Farm, 2825 El Camino Real, Santa Clara

Choice of entree: baked ham or beef stroganoff with rice. Included with the
meal is a vegetable, tossed green salad, beverage and dessert. Tickets are $4.25
per plate; price includes room rental, tax and tip. It is not much to pay once
per year, especially for a delicious dinner at a place with such fine atmosphere
(this is a personal voucher).

Tickets may be purchased from Emmet Murphy either by mail or at the June 27
picnic-starparty. His address is 65 So 9th St #3, SJ 95112. Tickets are colored
for ease in identification--orange for ham, brown for stroganoff. LAST DATE OF
PURCHASE: JULY 4.

Program: Dr Jeffrey Scargle from Lick Observatory will speak; his topic will be
"Some Thoughts On Extra-Terrestrial Life". Current scientific evidence will be
used to evaluate the probabilities of the existence of life in other parts of the
universe and what characteristics such life might have. Evidence for and against
visitors to earth from other worlds will be presented; also discussed will be
modern attempts to communicate with extraterrestrial life.

SJAA officers for 1970-71 will be inaugurated.

BOARD MEETING

Date: Friday, 17 July
Time: 8 PM sharp
Location: the house of Jerry Schad, 1180 Denise Way, SJ; call 266-7652 for
directions.
Agenda: plans for August public-relations starparty, details for August meeting,
and outline for the September meeting.

STARPARTIES

Saturday, 27 June - picnic-starparty at LERA-Cothran Observatory site; logistic
details on announcement with bulletin. Many of our new people have not seen the
site where we are building our observatory. Last summer the pier was dug and
poured; this summer we hope to get a lot more accomplished. This picnic-starparty
will let everyone see where our observatory is by daylight, what needs to be done,
and how great the skies are at night.

Friday, 3 July - regular starparty at L-CO site.

Saturday, 1 August - overnight starparty, Fremont Peak State Park.

-1-

=== PAGE 2 ===
BIG P-R STARPARTY

In the last year, SJAA has come quite a long ways, and has even set some
precedents.

It is felt that now, especially since summer is here, we are ready to truly
publicize our existence in effort to draw in new people and fresh ideas.

Therefore, on Saturday, 8 August there will be a big public-relations star-
party at our old Skyline site.

Why Skyline? The site is extremely simple to find and is only 20-30 minutes'
drive from most of San Jose. Also, the night skies are darker than in the valleys,
and are quite suitable for the purpose of introducing the general public to ama-
teur astronomy.

The crescent moon will set at 9:53 PM. Since sunset occurs about 7:45PM, the
moon will be a decent sight for about 1½ hours. M 57 (the Ring in Lyra) will also
be well placed for viewing. The Perseid meteor shower, which reaces maximum
three days later, should be putting out a few advancemembers, which are usually
quite bright: magnitude 0 to -3.

It is our hope to entice some 100 or more people up to the site. After the
May 2 planetarium meeting, there were over 70; if we could do it once, comparatively
unpublicized, think what we can do with an all-out effort.

And not only think--DO. Dave and Trudy E are already starting to design posters
and announcement sheets to be put up around July 30 in such places as science
shops, camera and sports stores. It is planned to widely publicize this in the
local newspapers. Information will be available at the banquet for clubmembers
to distribute to friends.

Start talking to people NOW!

Much must be done in the next seven weeks. It sounds like a long time, but
don't be deceived.

People are needed to help with making and distributing posters and information.
If you have any more ideas for publicizing (such as ways to get to summer-ses-
sion science classes in local highschools and junior colleges) and/or you wish to
help, contact

Trudy E, 244-1096                    Dave, 269-4838

Remember, clubmembers are also needed at the starparty itself! Bring your tel-
escope, yourself, a few books and atlases fnr display, and prepare to answer the
eager questions of the public.

*        *        *

WAA-ALPO CONVENTION (notice from Sacramento--)

The Association of Lunar and Planetary Observers will hold its 1970 Convention
jointly with the Western Amateur Astronomers in Sacramento on August 20, 21 and 22.

The Sacramento Valley Astronomical Society is making every effort to reduce the
cost of the Convention. A DISCOUNT on prepaid-registrations will be offered.
Motels within walking distance of the Convention headquarters offer rates in
the range of $6 to $18 per night.

The Mansion Inn, headquarters for the Convention, is noted for its artistic
artificial flower decorations. Its Art Director will conduct a craft class and
art show. We will also offer a tour of the historic Governor's Mansion and the
State Capitol. Shopping tour in a delightfully unique shopping center is being
worked out. The cost of all these activities will be included in the low family
registration fee.

If you have observed the total eclipse, we'll be ready for you. We will have

=== PAGE 3 ===
one big session devoted exclusively to the eclipse. Even if you do not intend to
give a paper, be sure to bring your slides of your set-up and of any other nearby
observers and their equipment.

GOING TO GIVE A PAPER? Type it (with a new ribbon) single spaced, on plain
8½ x 11-inch paper, leaving at least a one-inch border all 'round. Do not number
the pages--we'll take care of that. If you have illustrations, draw them with
BLACK ink or a soft, SHARP, pencil. Photographs must be contrasty, glossy prints.
Slides or negatives cannot be printed.

This procedure will produce "CAMERA READY" copy. Remember, we print it like it
is. Give us a fuzzy, smudgy paper, and we'll have a fuzzy, smudgy proceedings.
You might consider sending your work of art to the PAPER CHAIRMAN--UNFOLDED in a
large manila envelope.

WAA Papers:                           ALPO Papers:
Mr Clifford Holmes                    Mr Walter Haas
8642 Wells Ave                        Box 42
Riverside, Calif. 92503               University Park, New Mexico 88001

Your paper must be in the hands of the appropriate Chairman by JULY 20, 1970.
If you miss this deadline, we cannot guarantee it will be included in the proceed-
ings. If you get into a jam for time, please send the title and a brief resume
to the chairman. Presentation time of most papers will be limited to FIFTEEN
MINUTES.

Ample, secure, floor space is available for commercial and individual or group
displays. If you would like to bring an exhibit, please send us your needs regard-
ing tables, easels, etc, as soon as is convenient. If possible, give us an idea
as to the nature of your exhibit so we can plan our room layout.

All inquiries concerning the Convention should be sent to this address:

                                S.V.A.S.
                                6218 28th Ave.
                                Sacramento, Calif. 95820

(For detailed information on motels and their rates, contact SJAA's WAA Represen-
tative Trudy E, 3560 Lindenwood Dr, SJ 95117.)

SJAA DUES

Dues are due! We have 65 names on our membership list, but only 36 people paid
up for the next year...what about the rest of you?

Membership dues are $9 per year (optional contributing membership $15 per year),
and entitle members to a one-year subscription to Sky and Telescope.

New people who wish to become members sometimes already subscribe to S & T. In
such cases, S & T makes a pro rata refund to the individual after his society mem-
bership and subscription becomes effective. (If the regular subscription has only
one or two months to run, refund will not be made.)

ELECTIONS ARE OVER!

Officers for 1970-71 will be announced at the banquet in July. However, these
people are board members for 1970-72: Dave Erickson, Clayton Neece, Bruce Smith,
and Mike Szudy. Filling out Paul Mancuso's last year until 1971 is Trudy E. Bruce
is SJAA's new librarian.

Welcome one and all! It looks to be a grand year ahead.

ET CETERA

Comet Bolelli laid an egg. By the time the announcement reached everyone, it
was down to 4th magnitude, according to the IAU announcement card. Well, you can't
really expect two Comet Bennetts in one year. Hope no one wasted too much time
vainly searching.

Locked out of Community Bank's front door last meeting? If this happens again,

=== PAGE 4 ===
go around the building to the back door; presumably no one just gave up on the spot.

Bruce Smith is SJAA's new librarian; for books, contact him at 609 Erubank Dr, Apt 17, Santa Clara, 244-6769.

Employed now are these: Don Summers is a physics research assistant at Uncle Charly's Summer Camp (UCSC)...Glenn MacPherson is doing photometry of Seyfert galaxies on the 24-inch Cassegrain on Mt Hamilton, an independent study under Dr Robert Kraft...Trudy E Bell is also on the mountain as a public tourguide for Lick Observatory (Thursday through Sunday afternoons)...Paul Menuoso is still working tracking Pioneer satellites...and Dave Erickson is grinding mirrors between beefburgers at Arbie's at Hillside and Camden (you can always tell when he's on shift by the carbo in the mustard).

SJAA's Observatory is slowly coming along. Don, Mike Saudy, Mike Eales, and Greg Nickols spent Thursday the 11th hauling up almost four tons of stuff: 26 sacks of concrete, 22 lengths of 20-foot re-bar, and 4000 pounds of sand and gravel mix. There is lots to be done this summer. If you are interested in helping, call Don at 296-1766 or Dave at 269-4838.

Dick Glasspool, a former member and SJAA treasurer, is back in California after having moved to Maryland some time ago. He has rejoined our group; his address and 'phone are: 2048 Paseo Olivos Ct, SJ 95130, 349-1407.

Meteor shower from Comet Pons-Winnecke reaches maximum on the 28th; should provide more than the average number of sporadic meteors for our picnic-starparty.

For reasons known to no man, Don Summers has been awarded the Royal Order of the Crowbar. Congratulations, Don!...(we think?)

Overheard: Allan Meyer was sitting, reading a physics book entitled The Franck-Hertz Experiment. His roommate Phil Nowak passed by and asked: "Is that a new singing group?"

PLUG: Wish to buy or sell? want to have an article of yours appear in print in the August SJAA bulletin? just want to comment? Send the ad or article to the bulletin editor, 3660 Lindenwood Dr, SJ 95117 by July 20, 1970 and look for it to appear next month!

YEA, TEAM

This suggestion appears under "Observing Hints" in Edmund Scientific's booklet "How To Use Your Telescope":
        If you want to see something spectacular, off-focus a bright star
        near the horizon and then tap the eyepiece tube lightly with your
        finger: you will see a flaming pinwheel shooting off red and
        green sparks!
Emmet tried it, but with minimal results; maybe the star was not close enough to the horizon. Using a high-power eyepiece on a refractor should be the best combination. Remarked Emmet: "It would work great with a Tasco since it's unsteady enough to vibrate for quite a while."
Talk about being hard-up for entertainment...

Comment from P.M.: Have some licorice.

MAY DUST NEVER FALL IN YOUR EYEPIECES

=== PAGE 5 ===
Hang this up in a prominent place so it can be easily seen...

CALENDAR OF SUMMER EVENTS

June

Saturday, June 27 - PICNIC-STARPARTY at LERA-Cothran site; meet at Dave Erickson's
4112 Camden Ave, between 5:30 and 4 PM

July

Friday, July 3 - STARPARTY at L-CO site; meet there at sunset

Saturday, July 4 - LAST DAY TO PURCHASE TICKETS FOR ANNUAL BANQUET; Contact Emmet
Murphy, 65 So. 9th St, Apt #3, SJ 95112; $4.25 each.

Saturday, July 11 - ANNUAL BANQUET; Berry Farm, 2825 El Camino Real, Santa Clara
dinner begins 7 PM (no-host happy hour 6:30 PM in conktail lounge)
Program: Dr Jeffrey Scargle of Lick Obs - "Some Thoughts on Extraterrestrial Life
Inauguration of SJAA officers, 1970-71

Friday, July 17 - BOARD MEETING, 8 PM; Jerry Sebad's, 1180 Denise Way, SJ.

Monday, July 20 - last day to submit papers for WAA-ALPO proceedings

Tuesday, July 28 - DELTA AQUARID METEOR SHOWER maximum (27 per hour)

August

Saturday, August 1 - OVERNIGHT STARPARTY; Fremont Peak State Park, leisurely 1½-
hour drive, eleven miles south of San Juan Bautista

Friday, August 7 - SJAA MEETING, 8 PM; Community Bank, 111 W St John, 2nd floor
auditorium, film and talk.

SATURDAY, AUGUST 8 -        ****BIG PUBLIC-RELATIONS STARPARTY****
Skyline site, begins sunset; this is the biggest public relations drive for
SJAA in five years. More in this and upcoming bulletins.

Tuesday, August 11 - maximum of PERSEID METEOR SHOWER (69 per hour)

Friday, August 14 - SJAA BOARD MEETING.

Sunday, August 16 - PARTIAL ECLIPSE OF THE MOON

Thursday through Sunday, Aug 20-22 - CONVENTION, SACRAMENTO for Western Amateur
Astronomers and Association of Lunar and Planetary Observers at the Mansion Inn,
16th and H Streets....SACRAMENTO WANTS YOU!

Saturday, August 29 - STARPARTY, L-CO site; meet there at sunset

September

Friday, Sept 4 - SJAA MEETING, 8 PM, Community Bank

Saturday, Sept 5 - OVERNIGHT STARPARTY, Fremont Peak

Friday, Sept 11 - SJAA BOARD MEETING

=== PAGE 6 ===
NOTICE

TO:        ALL OFFICERS AND BOARD MEMBERS

SUBJECT:   ABSENTEEISM

    It has become necessary for us to review some of our policies, due to frequent
absenteeism of our officers and board members.  The following changes are in effect
as of today:
            SICKNESS:        NO EXCUSE...We will no longer accept your Doctor's
                            statement of proof, as we believe that if you are
                            able to go to the doctor, you are able to come to
                            meetings.

            DEATH:          (OTHER THAN YOUR OWN)...This is no excuse.  There
                            is nothing you can do for them, and we are sure that
                            someone else with a lower position can attend to the
                            arrangements.  However, if the funeral can be held
                            in the early evening, we will be glad to let you come
                            one hour late, provided that your share of the work
                            is ahead enough to keep the job going in your absence.

            LEAVE OF ABSENCE: (FOR AN OPERATION)...We are no longer allowing this
                            practice.  We wish to discourage any thoughts that you
                            may need an operation, as we believe as long as you
                            are an officer, you will need all of whatever you have
                            and you should not consider having anything removed.
                            We elected you as you are and to have anything re-
                            moved would certainly make you less than we bargained
                            for.

            DEATH:          (YOUR OWN)...This will be accepted as an excuse, but
                            we would like a two weeks' notice.  We feel it is
                            your duty to teach someone else your job.

    Also, entirely too much time is being spent in the restroom.  In the future,
we will follow the practice of going in alphabetical order.  For instance, those
whose names begin with "A" will go from 8:00 to 8:15, "B" will go from 8:15 to
8:30, and so on.  If you are unable to go at your time, it will be necessary to
wait until the next meeting when your time comes around again.

                                                    THE ADMINISTRATION


Return to: San Jose Amateur Astronomers, Inc.
Bulletin Writer: 3660 Lindenwood Dr, San Jose, Ca.
                            95117

=== PAGE 7 ===
SATURDAY, JUNE 27

PICNIC-STARPARTY

at our LERY-T-[?]ymey Observatory site.
In late Santa Cruz mountains

Meet at Dave Erickson's (4112 Camden Ave.) between
3:30 and 4 PM, and join the caravan driving to the site.

BRING A PICNIC SUPPER
      A SLEEPING BAG
      A TELESCOPE
      FAMILY AND FRIENDS
      YOURSELF!

The moon is just past last quarter and will rise after midnight.


                    SUMMIT RD    2.5 MILES
         ___________________________________________________
        |
MICHAEL| WRIGHT STATEN RD                    North
   RD  |    1.5 mi
        |      Site
        |        ↓
        |      (Dietz)
        | Common
        | (3/96)
        |
        |                    For late stragglers, the
        |                    road is marked by signs
        |                    reading either "L-CO"
        |                    or "JOIA"
        O

PS-Bring sheet buy lanmove pillows!