=== PAGE 1 ===
398256

FILED
in the office of the Secretary of State
of the State of California

AUG 26 1955

FRANK M. JORDAN, Secretary of State
By [signature]
Deputy

ARTICLES OF INCORPORATION

OF

SAN JOSE AMATEUR ASTRONOMERS.

KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS:

That we, the undersigned, all of whom are citizens and
residents of the State of California, have this day voluntarily
associated ourselves together for the purpose of forming a non-
profit corporation pursuant to Part 1 of Division 2 of Title 1
of the Corporations Code of the State of California.

And we hereby certify:

ARTICLE I.

The name of this corporation shall be SAN JOSE AMATEUR
ASTRONOMERS.

ARTICLE II.

That the primary purpose for which this corporation is
formed is to afford the organization's members the advantages of
group study and participation in the field of astronomy and of
the sharing of the technology and details of craftsmanship en-
tailed in building the instruments therefor.

ARTICLE III.

The general purposes for which it is formed are:

(a) The general purposes and objectives of this corpora-
tion shall be to engage in educational, scientific, investigative,
literary, historical, philanthropic, and charitable pursuits which
will promote and foster the study of astronomy and meteorology.

(b) To enter into, make, perform, and carry out contracts
of every sort, character and description with any person, firm,
association, corporation, either private or public, or municipality,

-1-

=== PAGE 2 ===
state or government, and to obtain from such government, state or
municipality any and all rights, easements, privileges, franchises,
charters, grants, and gifts relating to or for the promotion or
advancement of the purposes of the corporation.

(c) To receive gifts, donations, devises, legacies, and
bequests of any kind, character or nature, including both real and
personal property, money and any other instruments or assets, from
any person, firm, association or corporation, for the purposes of
carrying into effect the objects and purposes of this corporation.

(d) To buy, sell, lease hold or improve real estate and
the fixtures and personal property incidental thereto or connected
therewith, and with such end in view to acquire by purchase, lease,
hire, gifts, or otherwise, lands, tenements, hereditaments, or any
interest therein, and to improve the same; and generally to hold,
manage, deal with and improve the property of the corporation, and
to sell, lease, mortgage, pledge or otherwise dispose of lands,
tenements, hereditaments or other property of the corporation.

(e) In the purchase or acquisition of property, both
real and personal, without limit to the amount, to incur debts and
to raise, borrow, and secure the payment of money in any lawful
manner, including the issuance of bonds, warrants, debentures,
obligations, negotiable and transferable instruments and evidences
of indebtedness of all kinds, either secured by mortgages, pledges,
deeds of trust or otherwise.

(f) To exercise any and all other powers and rights
which a co-partnership, corporation or natural person could do or
exercise and which are now or hereafter may be authorized by law.

ARTICLE IV.

Said corporation does not contemplate pecuniary gain
or profit to the members thereof and is organized for charitable,
social, educational, and recreational purposes.

-2-

=== PAGE 3 ===
ARTICLE V.

That the existence of this corporation is to be perpetual.

ARTICLE VI.

That the county in the State of California where the principal office for the transaction of the business of this corporation is to be located is the County of Santa Clara.

ARTICLE VII.

The number of directors of the corporation shall be seven. The number of such directors may be changed by amendment to the Articles of Incorporation or by a By-Law duly adopted by the members of the corporation.

ARTICLE VIII.

That the names and addresses of the persons who are to act in the capacity of directors until the selection of their successors are:

NAME                          ADDRESS

WESLEY H. LINDSAY             San Jose, California
THOMAS KELSON                 Sunnyvale, California
LUCIAN P. DUNTON             Santa Clara, California
WALTER J. KHAMM              Cupertino, California
STEPHEN W. RIEDA             San Jose, California
JOHN C. DELANEY              San Jose, California
DEAN PRITCHETT               Santa Clara, California

ARTICLE IX.

That the authorized number and qualifications of members of this corporation, the different classes of membership, if any, the voting and other rights and privileges of each class of membership, and the liability of each or all classes to-dues

-3-

=== PAGE 4 ===
or assessments, and the method of collection thereof, shall be
set forth in the by-laws of this corporation.

ARTICLE X.

That the by-laws of this corporation shall be adopted
by the directors named in the Articles of Incorporation and may
thereafter be amended or repealed by any means provided in the
by-laws or any other method provided by law.

ARTICLE XI.

That this corporation shall not have a capital stock.


IN WITNESS WHEREOF, we have hereunto set our hands this

16th day of August, 1955.

Walter N. Lindsay
Thomas Wilson
Lucian T. Deiston
Walter J. Kumm
Stephen W. Bieda
John C. Delaney
Joan Schlitt

=== PAGE 5 ===
STATE OF CALIFORNIA     )
                                                ) ss.
COUNTY OF SANTA CLARA    )


                On this 16th day of    August   , 1955, before me,

        H. G. HILL              , a Notary Public in and for the

County of Santa Clara, State of California, residing therein,

duly commissioned and sworn, personally appeared

                        WESLEY M. LINDSAY,

                        THOMAS NELSON,

                        LUCIAN F. DUTTON,

                        WALTER J. KHUMM,

                        STEPHEN W. BIEDA,

                        JOHN C. DELANEY, and

                        DEAN PRITCHETT,

known to me to be the persons whose names are subscribed to

the foregoing instrument, and they each duly acknowledged to me

that they executed the same.

                IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and

affixed my official seal, at my office in the said County of

Santa Clara, the day and year in this certificate first above

written.
                                    [Signature]
                        Notary Public in and for the County
                        of Santa Clara, State of California