=== PAGE 1 ===
[THIS IS IMAGE: Photograph of a comet in night sky]
                                          sjaa

=== PAGE 2 ===
                                                                              1
                                          sjaa

april '76 Bulletin                      Editor
                                        Jack M. Zeiders

WHAT'S GOING ON IN THE CLUB:

MARCH 27:      Henry Coe Park, dusk 'till dawn.
This should be a spectacular star party. Weather permitting, there will be a half dozen
planets, myriad galaxies, and for a finale, comet West. Yes, Virginia, it will still be
highly visible. If anyone missed the spectacular display of March 7th, twenty days later
the comet should present 5 to 10 degrees of tail. On the 21st the head was reported to be
of first magnitude by Don McGlauflin.

APRIL 2:       Olinder Center, 7:30 PM.
This is an Equipment and Slide Night. I wonder if anyone might present a picture of
comet West? Kevin Medlock will have his uncompleted 18" telescope there. Amongst
the other equipment will be a 12' 'scope featuring the two-station diagonal described
elsewhere in this month's bulletin.

APRIL 3:       Half Moon Bay
The A.S.P. is having a public star party.

APRIL 7:       Canoas Elementary School, dusk 'till 10 PM.
Jim Van Nuland has arranged for a special star party this evening. Ten to fifteen young
people participating in a program for gifted minors are to be at the focus of our presentation.
The students range in age from 8 to 12 years and have expressed an interest in astronomy.
I don't have the complete address, but the school is located on the eastern section of Wren
Drive, between Capitol and Curtner.

APRIL 9:       Dr. Gregory's home.
The Board of Directors meeting. All interested members are welcome to board meetings.

APRIL 10:      K-Mart, Saratoga-Sunnyvale and Bollinger Rds.
Astronomy Day. I plan to be there with my 8'' and perhaps a 2.4" scope. Wouldn't
you enjoy the opportunity to display your scope and astronomical expertise to the public?

APRIL 24:      Henry Coe State Park.
Club star party. Upper site (through the gate and over the woods).

MAY 18 to 22:  Lawrence Hall  of Science, Berkeley.
The Astronomical Society of the Pacific is having their summer scientific meeting.

MAY 29 to 31:  Big Bear.
The Riverside Ameteur Telescope Makers Conference.

=== PAGE 3 ===
                                                                              2
                                          sjaa

The Last Star Party:       (or: Tales Of You Should Have Been There)
Arriving late, I bathed the entire site in light while fumbling to set up the 8''. Kevin
Medlock arrived at the same time, but Celestron 8's only take 3.25 minutes to set up.
The crowd was very good for a winter star party. About twenty persons were there at
various times. The Moon was up and the breeze was cold, but the seeing and transparancy
were good. There were telescopes of 16, 15, 12, 10, 8, and 6 inch apetures, and assorted
astronomy types to go with them. We had a visiting expedition from the Chabot Telescope
Maker's Woorkshop. I slept part of the evening (burned out from Friday's fiasco), only
to be awakened by lung powered C,B, between Rattley and Curtis across the park. The
comet was coming up and the tail looked like an aircraft with it's landing lights on!
Most of us who remained on the hill were tripping our shutters and over our tongues.
Those who went home to a nice warm bed were fogged out and missed a super show.

Editorial:
This is the second effort of the new bulletin staff. I hope you find it an improvement
over our first edition, because I am going to hit you up for money. Yes, dear friend,
it is very expensive to produce a Bulletin like this. We are looking for financial support
from those who think the new format is worth keeping. Our treasurer would be most happy
to accept donations for printing costs. I thoroughly enjoy producing the Bulletin, and would
like input from you on how to improve it. Tech Talk is open to articles by interested
people who wish to share their knowledge. Just send a typed or neatly written (readable)
copy to Don McGlauflin, 1571 Piedmont Rd., San Jose, CA  95132. Any editorial
correspondence should be sent to Jack Zeiders at 725 Minnesota Ave., San Jose, CA  95125.

Ads Infinitum:
Scott Hares needs a new spider and diagonal holder for a 1.25" minor axis diagonal
to fit a 7" I,D, tube. Phone  225-0336.

Jack Meyer has a grinding machine for up to a 12" mirror to give away. It needs
a 120 R,P,M, motor. Phone  335-7318  (Felton)

=== PAGE 4 ===
                                                                              3
                                          sjaa

Rattley Rattles

I sincerely hope that no one missed seeing comet West, in the East, earlier this
month. Those that did truely missed one of the most spectacular comets of this century.
Comet West turned out to be all that comet Kohoutek failed to be. At our last star party
at Henry Coe State Park we even overheard truck drivers on Pacheco Pass talking about
it on thier C,B, radios, and Denni Frerichs said she almost didn't see it because she
thought it was just someone shining a beam of light up into the sky.

The comet's tail was big, broad, bright, and at least 17 degrees long. I compared
the brightness of this comet with Altair while the sky was still dark and could easily
see that the comet made Altair look like a 3rd or 4th magnitude star. It was my impression
that comet West was at least of zero magnitude, but was probably even brighter than that.
Later, when venus rose (in fairly bright skies) I found Venus to be much brighter than
the comet, leaving the comet to be either zero or minus one magnitude, but bright anyway.

The latter half of this month, the Moon has been hanging around in the morning skies
making the comet seem weak and helpless. But once the Moon gets out of the way, for
our next Star Party at Coe Park, I expect that comet West will still be a decent show,
though it will have lost much of it's glory. For those who have not seen comet West, 1975n,
I urge you to please get out to this next Star Party and have a look at this sure candidate
for "Comet of the Century".

For those who got pictures and slides of this comet, bring them to the next meeting.
This was a very photogenic comet and there were lots of shutters clicking away, and
I'm sure a lot of fine pictures were taken. Let's see them.

A few tips for the next Star Party: besides the comet, bring your "galaxy eyeballs"
as Virgo will be up to entertain you with a myriad of other worlds (M104, M87, M49, etc.)
Also to be viewed will be Leo, Coma Bernices, Ursa Major,.....galaxies, galaxies galore,
plus a few planetaries and several fo the large globular star clusters. The following is a
short list of a few of my favorite NGC galaxies:

NGC#  RA/Dec   Mag  Size    Type   Description (from NGC catalogue)
2408  0732/66  9    17'x10' Sc     ! ! Considerably bright, extremely large, very much
                                    elongated, very gradually much brighter in the middle,
                                    distinct nucleus.
2903  0929/22  9    11x4 1/2 Sb    Considerably bright, very large, elongated, gradually
                                    much brighter in the middle, mottled, has a small
                                    faint knot in the north part of the following arm (NGC1902)
2683  0850/34  9.5  8x1.5   Sb     Very bright, very large,very much elongated in the
                                    direction 39째, gradually much brighter in the middle.
3115  1003/07  9.5  4x1.25  E6     Very bright, large, very much elongated in the direction
                                    46째, very gradually suddenly much brighter in the middle
                                    with an elongated distinct nucleus.
4565  1234/26  10   14x1.25 Sb     Bright, extremely large, extremely elongated in the
                                    direction 135째, very suddenly brighter in the middle
                                    with a nucleus like a 10th magnitude star.

=== PAGE 5 ===
                                                                              4
                                          sjaa

RATTLEY CONTINUES RATTLING....................

NGC#  RA/Dec   Mag  Size     Type   Description
4656  1242/32  11   19.5x2   Sc     ! Pretty bright, large, very much elongated in the
                                     direction 34째, has a very faint companion north
                                     following (which I have never seen, personally)

Also viewable will be Saturn, Mars, Uranus, Neptune, and, of course, Pluto. This
should turn out to be a good Star Party, so don't miss it!

Contributed by Gerry Rattley

=== PAGE 6 ===
                                                                              5
                                          sjaa

tech talk    By Don McGlauflin

If you are going to do photography with your telescope, wouldn't it be nice to be
able to quickly switch between eyepiece and camera, without disturbing the focus of
either? Here's an easy way to do it that I have incorporated into my 12'' telescope.
It's a flip-flop diagonal holder that is easy to make and allows two observing stations
on opposite sides of the tube. With an eyepiece on one side and camera on the other;
it is a simple matter to center that faint galaxy in the eyepiece, flop the diagonal
over to the pre-focused camera, and begin the exposure.

My spider is of the type that has a threaded rod thru it for mounting the diagonal
holder. If yours is the smooth slip-type with a setscrew, it will be necessary to add
a collar with a setscrew between the spider and diagonal holder. Otherwise, the
only other part you need to make is a knob roughly the same diameter as the spider
center section. Put a setscrew thru one side and drill the hole for the ball bearing
so that the ball fits snugly (put the spring in first!). Two indents in the top face of
the spider support completes the fabrication. Screw the knob onto the shaft until
it jams, then back off until the ball drops into the first detent. Now you can screw
the diagonal holder in and out to get proper collimation, while the knob stands still.
Tighten the setscrew and the whole assembly will rotate from detent to detent.

Make sure that you put your second observing station exactly the same distance
from the primary mirror as the first to eliminate collimation shift when switching
diagonal positions. See acompanying illustrations for added confusion.

[THIS IS FIGURE: Technical diagram showing telescope diagonal holder mechanism with labeled parts including VANE, SPRING, INDENTS, ball bearing, INDENT, INSERT, Knob, Setscrew, Camera, Eyepiece, and DIAGONAL MIRROR]
