=== PAGE 1 ===
SAN JOSE AMATEUR ASTRONOMERS
MONTHLY BULLETIN
AUGUST 1972

July Banquet

Kudos all around for everyone involved in the planning of the SJAA annual banquet at the Red Carpet Restaurant on Sunday evening, July 16th. Approximately 50 people watched the installation of the officers of the coming year. They are:
    PRESIDENT: Dr. A.B. Gregory
    Vice PRESIDENT: Jerry (Spiro) Rattley
    TREASURER: Emmett Murphy
    Sec./Bulletin EDITOR: Norman Wild

Dave Erickson, the outgoing president, summed up the club's growth and achievements. He stressed the main thrust of club endeavor should be in bringing astronomy to the general public.

Dr. Gregory paid tribute to the special skills and dedication of Dave Erickson in guiding the club so successfully. In looking ahead, he expressed hopes for even more participation in club meetings by the members. He feels the phrase "generation gap" has no meaning for our club as members of all ages share ideas and talents on an equal basis.

The evening was rounded off by the guest speaker, Dr. Lawrence Cathiff, a theoretical physicist with NASA, Ames. He gave the group a stimulating picture of the universe via infra red astronomy.

EVENTS FOR AUGUST

August 1 (Tuesday)--Please note the change in the monthly meeting

August 5 (Saturday)--overnight star party at Fremont Peak. Observing conditions are excellent here, and the camping facilities are good. For info., call Norm Wild 252-8966.

August 11 (Friday)-- watch for falling ladders, & wild-eyed Rumanians who tries to sell you a diesel duck, and lumps in your gravy. Remember, if today was tomorrow, it would be yesterday......

August 4  (Back to Friday)--Planning meeting at Commedy Bank Bldg

August 12 (Whew!)--A public star party will be held at the Skyline site which is located 1.8 miles past Skyline Blvd., toward Felton, on Hwy 9. The clearing is on the left. Be sure and spread the word and invite anyone interesting...(what did he mean by that?) Telescopes will be set up for public viewing....
