=== PAGE 1 ===
January Meeting, 1968
The Board of Directors of the San Jose Amateur
Astronomers met on January 22, 8 P.M., at Chuck
Williams. Present were Messrs. Summers, Plankinton,
and Williams, and the writer.
  The February meeting, on the 5th, will be at the
Community Center, as usual. The program will include
The NET film from the Experiment series, "The
Invisible Planet." A colleague of Mr. Williams, Mr.
will give a talk on his technique of receiving and printing
satellite weather pictures. If he has some equipment
or displays, his talk will precede the film. The final
formal item will be a progress report on the 12½"
by Mr. Bollinger.
  Saturday, February 10, will be an observing class, and
a star party that evening.
  The Board gave the writer permission to borrow
"The Invisible Planet" for showing to the Branham High
School Science Club. The Board spitulated that it should
be made known that SJAA is making this possible.
The next    In view of the interest aroused by the January visit
business mtg to Foothill Planetarium and Observatory, a special solar
will be Feb 19 observing session may be arranged. The proposed date
at Mr.    would be Saturday morning, February 17.
Plankintons.  The Board approved a motion to sell the mimeograph
         and buy a ditto machine as soon as one is found.
  It was proposed to obtain a guest speaker from San
Jose State for the March meeting. Relativity as the topic
was suggested.
                     Respectfully Submitted,
                     Allan Meyer
                     Secretary, San Jose Amateur Astronomers
* ½ hour long

=== PAGE 2 ===
February Business Meeting, 1968
The S.J.A.A. Board of Directors met on February
19, at 8 P.M., at Ralph Plankintons. Present were
Messrs. Summers, Plankinton, Williams, and the writer.
  The writer asked if anyone had recieved the bill for
the NET. film seen at the last meeting. Mr. Williams
was serving as intrim Treasurer when the film was
ordered. He had not recieved a bill. Mr. Plankinton checked
the Treasurer's files, confirming that he had not recieved
a bill. The Board decided that no special actions should be
attempted on this matter at the present time.
  In view of the present state of affairs in the Science
Dept. of San Jose State, the Board decided against
requesting a speaker from the faculty, for the March meeting.
  Don Summers will give a talk on Telescope clock drives
at the March meeting. The writer will give a talk on
"The Sky and Time".
  The star party scheduled for February 10 was cancelled
by bad weather. So was the observing session at Foothill
on the 17th. The Board decided to have a star party
this Friday or Saturday night, whichever is clear. The
writer will notify the membership during the week.
  The next official star party will be on March 9th.
  The next Business Meeting will be Friday, March 15,
at 8 P.M., at the writers. The Board suggested that a
special invitation to members be issued, and directions
given at the meeting.
  The Board directed that an updated membership list
be published with the March bulletin.
  A publicized observing session during the April 12 moon
eclipse was discussed.          Respectfully Submitted,
                                Allan Meyer

=== PAGE 3 ===
2/5/68 S.J. NEWS
Astronomy
Meeting Set

The movie "The Invisible Planet" is to be shown at tonight's
meeting of the San Jose Amateur Astronomer's Club. It
meets in the Leininger Community Center at 8 p.m.
  The film tells of the discovery
of a possible planet near Barnard's star. Greg Toben of IBM
Corp. also will describe a method he has devised for receiving
and printing weather satellite
pictures. The public is invited to
attend.

=== PAGE 4 ===
March Business Meeting, 1968
The S.J.A.A. Board of Directors met on March 15,
at 8:30 p.m., at the writer's home. Also present were Messrs.
Fontaine, Plankinton, Williams, Summers, MacPherson, Erickson,
Kittler, and Miss Bell.
  Mr. Krumm was contacted to arrange a speaker for the
April meeting.
  Plans for the April 12 moon eclipse were proposed and
discussed. It was decided to have a publicized observing
session at Branham High School in south San Jose. This
was a suitable compromise between distance from city lights
and convenience for visitors.
  The next star party was set for Saturday, April 27.
  The following fund-raising proposal was unanimously approved.
Each of the three "Sky Sets" and one a "Jumbo Set" would
be purchased from the Sky Publishing Co. Then photo-murals
from these collections would sold individually to members.
Selections from the Sky Sets would be sold for $0.50 each, and
selections from the Jumbo Set would be sold for $0.75 each.
  Members Bruce Smith and Joe Mancuso, in absence due to
military Service, were voted Honorary Memberships.
  A grazing occultation is predicted for the Watsonville area
on May 3rd.
  It was proposed to set out a "question box" at regular
meetings. Questions and suggestions concerning astronomy and
S.J.A.A. would be entered anonymously. Questions would be answered
in the next bulletin.
  The next Business Meeting will be on April 19 at
Mr. Bollinger's.
                     Respectfully submitted,
                     Allan Meyer
                     Secretary, San Jose Amateur Astronomers

=== PAGE 5 ===
The speaker at the April meeting of S.J.A.A. will
be Mr. Lewis Haugney, of the NASA Ames Research
Center, Airborne Science Division. His talk will deal
with a recent + airborne aurora expedition in Canada.

  The April 12th moon eclipse was well observed and
photographed. Although clouds hid the earlier stages, as
the moon rose higher, observing conditions became excellent.

April Business Meeting, 1968
The S.J.A.A. Board of Directors met on April 19.
Mr. Bollinger was not at home, so the meeting place was
switched to Trudy Bell's.
  The program of the May meeting will be a review
of the April 12 eclipse, including members' photographs.
  The Sky Sets and Jumbo Sets were recieved, and will
be on sale at the May meeting (as described in the March
Bus. Mtg. notes).
  The next star star party was already set for April
27. Next month a star party is scheduled for May 18.
  The next meeting of the Board will be on May 17, at
Mr. Plankinton's.
                     Respectfully submitted,
                     Allan Meyer
                     Secretary, San Jose Amateur Astronomers

=== PAGE 6 ===
May Business Meeting, 1968
The S.J.A.A. Board of Directors met on May 17,
at 8 p.m., at Mr. Plankinton's home. Also present were
Messrs. Summers, Williams, Miss Bell and the writer.
  The proposed amendment to change to a fiscal year
was presented to the Board (see Nov., 1967 Bus. Mtg. notes).
It will be published in the next bulletin.
  Appointments to the Nominating Committee for this year's
elections were completed. The members are Ralph Plankinton,
Chuck Williams, and Trudy Bell.
  Mr. Plankinton requested that members be encouraged to
bring funds for paying dues to the June meeting.
  The program of the June meeting will include election
of the Board of Directors, additional photos from the April
moon eclipse, and a demonstration of the Foucalt Test by
Mr. Delaney. The Sky Sets pictures, and Jumbo Set pictures,
will be on sale.
  The Annual Banquet will be on the second Saturday of
July. A Morrison Lecture will be requested for the program.
Mrs. Pollock has graciously volunteered to arrange the
reservation of a banquet hall.
  A star party has been previously scheduled for tomorrow
night. Next month's star party will be on June 22.
  The next meeting of the Board will be on June 10, at
Chuck Williams home. Election of S.J.A.A. officers will be
held at that time.
                     Respectfully submitted,
                     Allan Meyer
                     Secretary, San Jose Amateur Astronomers

=== PAGE 7 ===
SAN JOSE AMATEUR ASTRONOMERS


                                                   May 19. 1968
                                                   10395 Judy Ave.
                                                   Cupertino, Cal. 95014


Allan Meyer
3703 Kersten Dr.
San Jose, Calif. 95124


Dear Allan:


Here is my suggested ammendment to the BY-LAWS OF SAN JOSE
AMATEUR ASTRONOMERS, pertaining to:

ARTICLE II....SECTION 2....Dues.
(a)
This club will operate on a fiscal year system; the first fiscal
year beginning on July 1, 1968 and continuing to July 1, 1969.
Each fiscal year thereafter to begin on July 1 and continue to
July 1 the following year.
(b)
This club began operating on a pro-rating system, to facilitate
the fiscal year system, on December 22, 1967, after receiving agreement from the Subscription Manager of SKY AND TELESCOPE MAGAZINE to pro-rate subscriptions on a monthly basis of 1/12 the yearly
rate in effect for club members.
(c)
Club dues will be pro-rated monthly at the basis of 1/12 of the yearly
dues in effect.
(d)
A member who pays club dues and SKY AND TELESCOPE subscription
fees during the first quarter of a fiscal year,shall pay the entire amount for that current fiscal year and shall be given back
issues of SKY AND TELESCOPE to the beginning of that year. This
should be paid by September 21.
(e)
After September 21; a member who pays dues and S & T subscription fee after the 21st of a month and up to and including the
21st of the following month, shall receive the current issue of
S & T and shall be pro-rated from that following month to the
end of that current fiscal year. This to occur during the second
and third quarters, and should be payed by March 21.
(f)
A member who pays dues and S & T subscription fee during the
last quarter of a fiscal year will pay the pro-rated amount
to the end of that fiscal year, plus the entire amount of club
dues and S & T subscription fees for the next fiscal year.
This should be paid by June 21.

                                   Respectfully Submitted,
                     Ralph Plankinton--Treasurer- SJAA

=== PAGE 8 ===
At, the June meeting of S.J.A.A., the proposed
amendment was passed unanimously. Members Bob Archibald,
John Delaney, Tom Ginn, and Walt Schoendorf were
elected to the Board of Directors.
  From three choices, these assembled chose Fjords as
the location of the Annual Banquet. Tickets were sold on
sale at the end of the meeting for $2.35 each.

June Business Meeting, 1968
The S.J.A.A. Board of Directors met on June 10, at
8 p.m., at Chuck Williams home. Also present were Messrs.
Summers, Delaney, Ginn, Schoendorf, Archibald, Plankinton, Miss
Bell, and the writer.
  Don Summers was reelected President. Tom Ginn was
elected Vice-President. Walt Schoendorf was elected Secretary.
Ralph Plankinton was reelected Treasurer. Chuck Williams
was appointed Librarian, and Larry Dart was appointed
Bulletin Editor.
  Methods of Bulletin production were discussed. Access
to copying machines was offered by several members.
  A star party was previously scheduled for June 22. The
date set for next months star party is July 27.
It will be an "overnighter" at Fremont Peak State Park.
  The next meeting of the Board of Directors will be on
July 15 at Trudy Bell's home.
                     Respectfully submitted,
                     Allan Meyer
                     Secretary, San Jose Amateur Astronomers

=== PAGE 9 ===
COPY
                                                   June 11, 1968

Dr. John G. Phillips
Berkeley Astronomy Dept.
University of California
Berkeley, California

Dear Dr. Phillips:

     Our astronomical society has
asked me to inquire of the possibility of having a Morrison Lecture at our Annual Banquet in
July. The enthusiastic response
of many members to last December's
Lecture makes such a program highly
desirable for the Banquet.

     Please accept my apologies for
the late date of this request. We
have recently been forced to alter
our plans. The Banquet will be on
July 13. The membership did not
indicate any preferences concerning
the subject of the talk.

     We deeply appreciate your time
and efforts in our behalf.

                                                   Sincerely,
                                                   [signature]
                                                   Allan Meyer, Secretary
                                                   San Jose Amateur Astronomers
                                                   3703 Kersten Drive
                                                   San Jose, California
                                                   95124

=== PAGE 10 ===
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, BERKELEY

BERKELEY • DAVIS • IRVINE • LOS ANGELES • RIVERSIDE • SAN DIEGO • SAN FRANCISCO    SANTA BARBARA • SANTA CRUZ

                                           A Tribute to the People of California

BERKELEY ASTRONOMY DEPARTMENT                      BERKELEY, CALIFORNIA  94720
(LEUSCHNER OBSERVATORY)

                                                   June 18, 1968



Mr. Allan Meyer
Secretary, San Jose Amateur Astronomers
3703 Kensten Drive
San Jose, California 95124

Dear Mr. Meyer:

I am passing your recent request for a Morrison Lecture on to
Professor A.E. Whitford on the Santa Cruz campus in the hope that one of
the Santa Cruz astronomers will be available on July 13.

The ASP will approve a Morrison lecture at the time of your Annual
Banquet if it can be arranged that the lecture is given to the public
and advertised locally through newspapers etc. You should probably
consider some other form of program if it is going to prove too inconvenient to move, say, from a restaurant to a lecture hall for the balance
of the program. However, if I can have your assurance that the general
public will be made aware of the lecture, and will have access to it,
then we will be pleased to attempt to find a suitable speaker. Please
let me know.

You may be hearing from someone at Santa Cruz if Dr. Whitford succeeds
in finding a speaker for you. If you do, please assure him of the
public nature of the talk. Other arrangements (time, place, topic) can
be made with the speaker directly. As usual, I will require from you a
written confirmation after the lecture, giving me the size of the audience,
and their reaction to the topic and speaker, as well as his name, topic,
and time and place of meeting.

I will be looking forward to hearing from you.

                                                   Sincerely yours,
                                                   [signature]
                                                   John G. Phillips

JGP:mf

=== PAGE 11 ===
copy


                                                   June 26, 1968



Dr. John G. Phillips
Berkeley Astronomy Dept.
Berkeley, California 94720

Dear Dr. Phillips:

I wish to inform you of our decision to cancel
the San Jose Amateur Astronomers' request for
a Morrison Lecture for our Annual Banquet.
This affair has traditionally been for the private
enjoyment of the membership, with the entire
program taking place in the banquet room where
the dinner is served.

Dr. Whitford called Friday, and I informed him
of our decision. He was quite helpful and
understanding.

Although we will obtain a speaker from our local
area for the Banquet, it is possible that members
will suggest a Morrison Lecture for one of our
regular meetings in the near future.

Thank you for your time and assistance.

                                                   Sincerely,

                                                   Allan Meyer, Secretary
                                                   San Jose Amateur Astronomers

=== PAGE 12 ===
Newell Trask of the U.S. Geological Survey agreed to
give a talk at the upcoming Banquet. He was contacted
at his Menlo Park office, phone no. 325-6781. His
home address is 41387 Kathleen, Fremont, California.

=== PAGE 13 ===
                                                   JUL     1968

Minutes of Planning Meeting-
              July 15, 1968

The following were present:

Ralph Plankinton
Allen Mayer
Trudy E. Bell
Henn MacPherson
David Erickson
Walt Schoendorf
Mike Eales
Richard Kittler
Delaney
John Delaney
Tom Ginn

The following decisions were made at
  this meeting:

1. That the August, 1968 monthly meeting
would be held on Monday, August 5 1968.
2. That at the August monthly meeting, the
membership of the SJAA would vote on
the possibility of having the monthly
meetings on the first Friday of each month
instead of the first Monday.
3. That the following talks would be given:

=== PAGE 14 ===
at the monthly meeting on August 5 1968
at 8 PM PDT.:
  A. "Notes on the Sagittarius Area" by
     Henn MacPherson, David Erickson,
     and Richard Kittler.
  B. The Construction and Use of a
     6 inch RFT" by Mike Eales
  C. "Observing this Month's Perseid
     Meteor Shower" by Walt Schoendorf
4. That the August Planning Meeting would
be held only on August 12, 1968
5. That the August Starparty would be
held on August 17, 1968

                     Respectfully submitted,
                     Walter J. Schoendorf Jr.
                     Secretary, S.J.A.A.

=== PAGE 15 ===
                                                   AUG     1968

Regular Meeting - August 5, 1968

  At this meeting the membership voted
that all regular meetings, starting in
September, 1968 would be held on the
first Friday of each month.

Planninng Meeting - August 12, 1968

The following, were present:

Larry Dart
Trudy E. Bell
Walt Schoendorf
Chuck Williams
Ralph Plankinton

The following desisions were made at
  this meeting:

1. That the September, 1968 monthly meeting
would be held on Friday, September 6, 1968
at 8 P.M.
2. That the following talks would given at
the September regular meeting:
  A. "Notes on the ... Region" by Henn
     MacPherson, David Erickson, and
     Richard Kittler.

=== PAGE 16 ===
  B. Report on the IAU Convention
     by Trudy E. Bell.
  C. Preliminary Report on the Perseid
     Meteor Shower by Walt Schoendorf
3. That the monthly SJAA starparty
would be held on September 21, 1968 at
the SJAA Skyline observing site.

=== PAGE 17 ===
Minutes of September, 1968
               Planning Meeting

Held at Ralph Plankingtons house.
Present: Allan Meyer; Mike Eales, Don Summers
        Tom Ginn, Trudy Bell; John Delaney
        and Walt Schoendorf, Terry Young.

1. Disgcussed eclipse photography - color films,
   etc.
2. The program for the October regular
   meeting was arranged as follows:
         "Eclipse Photography" Don Summers
         "Eclipse Observing" Mike Eales
3. The October gatherings were set as
   follows:
         October 4, 8 P.M.- Regular Meeting
         October 18, 8 P.M.- Planning Meeting
         October 19 - Starparty
4. It was suggested that the club have a
   stricter budget, but no motion was made.
5. It was questioned w if the club had the
   right to force members to take Sky and
   Telescope Magizine.
   Motion: Not to force members to take
         Sky and Telescope, making dues $3.00
         without S+T, $2.00 with S+T. Passed.
6. It was decided to pass out a intrest

=== PAGE 18 ===
questionaire at the October regular
  meeting.
7. It was suggested to have speakers, talking
  at SJAA meeting, to write up a
  draft which would be published at the
  end of the year in a booklet. No motion
  made.
8. I was suggested to have and observing
  secnion period after regular meetings.

                     Respectfully submitted,
                     Walt Schoendorf
                     Secretary, S.J.A.A.

=== PAGE 19 ===
copy of typed original


                                                   1741 Laurelwood Dr
                                                   San Jose, Calif. 95125
                                                   October 9, 1968

Dr. John G. Phillips
Berkeley Astronomy Dept.
University of California
Berkeley, California

Dear Dr. Phillips:

  The San Jose Amateur Astronomers
board of directors has asked me to inquire
of the possibility of having a Morrison
Lecture at our December monthly meeting
on December 6, 1968. I would suggest one
of two topics, comets or planets. Deep-space
topics are also highly interesting.
  We truly appreciate your time and
efforts in our behalf.

                                                   Sincerely,
                                                   Walt Schoendorf
                                                   Walter J. Schoendorf Jr.
                                                   Secretary,
                                                   San Jose Amateur Astronomers

=== PAGE 20 ===
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, BERKELEY

BERKELEY • DAVIS • IRVINE • LOS ANGELES • RIVERSIDE • SAN DIEGO • SAN FRANCISCO    SANTA BARBARA • SANTA CRUZ

                                           A Tribute to the People of California

BERKELEY ASTRONOMY DEPARTMENT                      BERKELEY, CALIFORNIA  94720
(LEUSCHNER OBSERVATORY)

                                                   October 15, 1968



Mr. Walter J. Schoendorf Jr.
Secretary
San Jose Amateur Astronomers
1741 Laurelwood Drive
San Jose, California 95125

Dear Mr. Schoendorf:

I am sending your recent inquiry regarding a Morrison Lecture to Dr. R. P.
Kraft on the Santa Cruz campus in the hope that one of the astronomers on
that campus can provide you with a lecturer on December 6. You should
expect to hear from Dr. Kraft or one of his colleagues within a very few
days. All arrangements with respect to time and place of the meeting, and
the topic of the talk can be discussed directly with the prospective speaker.
The only further material that I would require would be a letter from you
after the lecture has been given, confirming the topic, time, and place of
meeting together with some indication of the size of the audience and their
reaction to the chosen topic. This letter should be accompanied by a ten
dollar check from your society, payable to the Astronomical Society of the
Pacific to assist in the defrayal of the speaker's travel expenses. After
I have received your letter and check then I can ask the ASP to extend to
the speaker the usual stipend and reimbursement of travel expenses.

You may know that the ASP asks that the host society advertise the Morrison
Lecture as a public lecture in the local press and through other media as
may seem fit.

Please get in touch with me again if any of these arrangements fall through,
I am pleased to be of service.

                                                   Sincerely yours,
                                                   [signature]
                                                   John G. Phillips

JGP:ve

=== PAGE 21 ===
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, SANTA CRUZ

BERKELEY • DAVIS • IRVINE • LOS ANGELES • RIVERSIDE • SAN DIEGO • SAN FRANCISCO    SANTA BARBARA • SANTA CRUZ

                                           A Tribute to the People of California

LICK OBSERVATORY                                   SANTA CRUZ, CALIFORNIA  95060

                         October 30, 1968



Mr. Walter J. Schoendorf Jr.
Secretary
San Jose Amateur Astronomers
1741 Laurelwood Drive
San Jose, California 95125

Dear Mr. Schoendorf:

I have been asked to give a Morrison Lecture to your Society
on December 6, 1968, and I shall be very happy to do so. I
am prepared to give a talk on "Activity in the Crab Nebula",
which was the subject of my thesis at Cal. Tech. Let me know
if you think this would be a suitable topic. I will need to
show 3 1/4 x 4" slides, so please let me know if you have
such a projector available (if not I can bring one).

                                                   Sincerely,
                                                   [signature]
                                                   Jeffrey D. Scargle
                                                   Junior Astronomer

JDS/nk
cc: Dr. John Phillips

=== PAGE 22 ===
copy of typed draft original


                                    1741 Laurelwood Dr.
                                    San Jose, Calif. 95125
                                    Nov. 11, 1968

Mr. Jeffrey D. Scargle
University of California
Santa Cruz, Calif. 95060

Dear Mr. Scargle:
  I am very glad that you will be able
to speak at our December meeting. I
am sure that your talk on "Activity in
the Crab Nebula" will be quit interesting
to our society's members.
  Concerning the meeting, it will be held
on Friday, December 6th,8 P.M., at
Leninger Community Center, San Jose. This
center is located on the grounds of
Kelley Park.
  We truly appreciate your time and
efforts in our behalf. Thank you.

                                                   Sincerely
                                                   Walt Schoendorf
                                                   Walter J. Schoendorf Jr.
                                                   Secretary,
                                                   San Jose Amateur Astronomers

=== PAGE 23 ===
[illegible text at top]

P.S. I was not able to obtain a
    "3¼ x 4" slide projector so I would
    appreciate it if you could bring one.

[illegible handwritten text below]

=== PAGE 24 ===
Planning Meeting- October 18, 1968

Attendence- Ralph Plankington, Trudy Bell,
John Delaney, Terry Young, Don Summers,
Walt Schoendorf, Tom Ginn.

  All At this meeting the following events
were planned:
Sunparty- Foothill College, November 16, 1968
Regular Meeting- Speakers: Bob Johnson and/or
  Trudy Bell, November 1, 1968.
Planning Meeting- Don Summers house, Nov.
  15, 1968.

Planning Meeting- November 15, 1968

Attendence- Terry Young, Trudy Bell, Ralph
Plankington, Tom Ginn, Don Summers, Walt
Schoendorf, Joe Mancuso.

  At this meeting there was much discussion
on the construction of the 12½" telescope.
It was des dee decided "mount it permenantly
permanently and to make the mounting large
enough to accomodate a future 20" Scope.
The following events were also planned at this
meeting:
  Regular Meeting- Dec. 6th, guest speaker: Jeffery D.

=== PAGE 25 ===
Scargle. Will speak on "Activity in the
Crab Nebula."
Sunparty- Foothill College, Dec. 7th.
Planning Meeting- Dec. 20th.
