=== PAGE 1 ===
S.J.A.A. Club
The planning meeting of the SJAA Club
Jan. 17, 1966, of the SJAA, was held at
Estrella and Max Pollocks house.
  Members present: Estrella Pollack,
Kevin Wells; Trudy Bell; Don Summers
Ralph Plankinton; Ken Blackwell,

  The new Carl Leininger Community
Center in Kelley Park [?], will be dedicated Sun., Jan. 23, 1966. Open house, Jan 24
+ 25 10AM To 4:00 PM. - This is the
Community Center the Club is considering establishing headquarters in. Corner of
Keyes + Center, E.J. (East Side).
  There will be a Star Party at the
next regular meeting to be held at the
Leininger Community Center, Feb.7, 8PM.
This will be the program, weather permitting.
  Discussion on where to have the 1966 banquet. Possibly at Kelley Park, the Rose Garden
Library or someones House. The Ladies in
our club would serve.

                     Respectfully
                     Ralph Plankinton-
                     Secretary

=== PAGE 2 ===
SAN JOSE AMATEUR ASTRONOMERS

Library Catalog – Chuck Williams
January    1966

BOOKS

1. Abell, G., Exploration of the Universe, 1964.

2. Amateur Telescope Making, Books I, II, and III.

3. Astronomical Society of the Pacific, vols. I, II, III, IV, V, VI, VII and VIII.

4. The Hubble Atlas of Galaxies, 1961 edition.

5. Martin, M.S., The Friendly Stars, 1907.

6. Milne, E. A., Sir James Jeans, 1952.

7. Moulton, F. R., Consider the Heavens, 1940.

8. Norton's Star Atlas, 14th edition.

9. Out of the Sky.

10. Ranger VII Photographs of the Moon, Part I, Camera "A" Series.


PERIODICALS

1. The Strolling Astronomer

2. Publications of the A. S. P.


MISCELLANEOUS

Foucault tester

45 - 35 mm. Slides

=== PAGE 3 ===
S.J.A.A. Club
The planning meeting of Feb. 21, 1966
was held at The Carl Leininger Community
Center in Kelley Park -Location: Corner of
Keyes + Center in San Jose.
  Board members present: Kevin Wells,
Bruce Smith - Ralph Plankinton- Ken Blackwell
Estrella Pollack - Don Summers - Larry Dart-
Other members: Trudy Bell - Joe Mancuso
  There was a motion to amend section IV
of Article IV of the Club By-Laws.
This motion to be put to vote before the members, at the next regular meeting.
  Lockers rental is $2.00 per month for
the large outside lockers and 50¢ per mo.
For the small inside lockers.
  There was discussion for future lectures
+ For the Banquet Lecture: Questions;
Moon-
  Write To UC Astronomy Lab.
For Morrison Lecture For April-15
Preferable to speak on a Planetary
subject.
  Next regular meeting will be held
at The Carl Leininger Community
Center, in Kelley Park Keyes + Center,
S. Jose, on Mon. 8PM, Mar 7, 1966- Bruce
Smith will report the graze occultation of

=== PAGE 4 ===
Tues, AM Feb.15, 1966.


                     Respectfully
                     Ralph Plankinton - Secretary

=== PAGE 5 ===
COPY        Feb 05, 66


Dr. J. Phillips
Berkeley Ast. Dept.
Univ. of California

Dear Dr. Phillips:
  Our club has decided to take
advantage of your offer of another
Morrison Lecture in the Spring,
If This offer is still available,
   We would prefer to have
The Lecture on Monday 8PM,
April 4, 1966. Also, may we have
The Talk on a Planetary subject.
   May I suggest the topic be
on Saturn and its Rings since the
Tines will be edgewise to Earth three
Times This year. Since R. Plankinton
               It could be Timely.

=== PAGE 6 ===
Dr. George         Stella called
NW + Lick 1-        Astronomer
(258061() Some Planetary work at M. t. Wilson
+ Office) + Planets done at Instruction
Lick Observatory - of Ariz. University
              Tucson
Herman Ferrier says The
President of Peninsula Club
can give Talk on Quasars 1ST?
Peninsula Club meets at Foothill College8PM


[IMPORTANT MESSAGE]
FOR
DATE                           TIME      A.M.
                                         P.M.
M    Jackie Reza | Palo  Prev-so
OF   MAFS:         4499
PHONE 996-4649  | 996-4725
      AREA CODE    NUMBER    EXTENSION

TELEPHONED              PLEASE CALL
CAME TO SEE YOU         WILL CALL AGAIN
WANTS TO SEE YOU        RUSH
RETURNED YOUR CALL      SPECIAL ATTENTION

MESSAGE Re: Science w/lab Req.
   Would As20 Sci/y surface For
   LAB Since There is 3 HRS/UNIT


SIGNED
LITHO IN U.S.A.

TOPS ⊕ FORM 3002P

=== PAGE 7 ===
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, BERKELEY

BERKELEY • DAVIS • IRVINE • LOS ANGELES • RIVERSIDE • SAN DIEGO • SAN FRANCISCO    SANTA BARBARA • SANTA CRUZ

BERKELEY ASTRONOMY DEPARTMENT                      BERKELEY, CALIFORNIA  94720
(LEUSCHNER OBSERVATORY)


                                                   3 March 1966



Mr. Ralph Plankinton, Secretary
San Jose Amateur Astronomers
10649 Gascoigne Drive
Cupertino, California

Dear Mr. Plankinton:

I am sending a copy of your request for a Morrison Lecture
to Dr. George Herbig at the Lick Observatory in the expectation
that one of the Lick astronomers will be able to provide you
with a lecture in April. You should be receiving a communication from someone at the Lick Observatory within the next few
days. Please let me know before the 15th if you have not
received a reply from them.

If a Lick astronomer can give the lecture, all that I would
require from you would be a letter after the talk has been
presented with the usual information on the title of the talk,
time and place of the meeting, the audience size, audience
reaction, and a check in the amount of $10, payable to the
Astronomical Society of the Pacific to defray the speaker's
expense. When this information and the check are received,
the ASP can proceed with issuance of the usual stipend.

Please let me know if I can be of further service.

                                                   Sincerely yours,
                                                   [signature]
                                                   John G. Phillips
                                                   Chairman


JGP/clt

=== PAGE 8 ===
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, BERKELEY

BERKELEY • DAVIS • IRVINE • LOS ANGELES • RIVERSIDE • SAN DIEGO • SAN FRANCISCO    SANTA BARBARA • SANTA CRUZ

BERKELEY ASTRONOMY DEPARTMENT                      BERKELEY, CALIFORNIA  94720
(LEUSCHNER OBSERVATORY)


                                                   16 March 1966



Mr. Ralph Plankinton, Secretary
San Jose Amateur Astronomers
10649 Gascoigne Drive
Cupertino, California

Dear Mr. Plankinton:

Dr. Jack Welch, on this campus, has agreed to give the
Morrison Lecture at San Jose on April 4. His address
is Radio Astronomy Laboratory, 640 Campbell Hall, University of California, Berkeley. I suggest that you
write to him, or telephone him regarding the topic of
his talk, etc.

                                                   Sincerely yours,
                                                   [signature]
                                                   John G. Phillips
                                                   Chairman


JGP/clt

Slides 3" X 4"
Dr. Welch will Talk on Saturn
and its Rings at The April 4
1966 meeting. - Mostly on the Radio
Emission of Saturn.

=== PAGE 9 ===
The planning meeting of The S.J.A.A.
held at was held March 21, 1966 of The
San Jose Amateur Ast. Club, was held
at The Carl Leininger Comm. Center
Kelley Park  Keyes + Center  San Jose.
  Members present: Kevin Wells -
Ralph Plankinton- Ken Blackwell -
Estrella + Max Pollack - Larry Dart-
Trudy Bell. Pres. Wells called the meeting + o
                           Thursday at 8:10 pm.
  Dr. Jack Welch of The Radio Astronomy Laboratory of Univ. of Calif at
Berkeley, will give a Morrison Lecture
on the  Radio Emission of Saturn
at The Mon. April 4, 1966 regular meeting.
  The club has 7 Leads on speakers
To Talk on Quasars  at Future meetings
  Ken Blackwell, treasurer has transfered
The club Funds To The First Nat.
Bank of San Jose, Sunnyvale branch.
A Star Party is Planned For April
23, 1966 Starting at 7:30 PM. It will
be held at out old site on Hy. 9 19 miles
south of Skyline drive. Weather permitting.
  A nominating committee will be
appointed at the planning meeting
of April 18, 1966.
  There was a discussion of the dust
clouds receding + Following The moon.

=== PAGE 10 ===
  There was more active general
discussion on American + Russian space
probes. - American space vehicles are
not stabilized as much as previously
we were. Sterilizing was damaging out
space Vehicles.



                     Respectfully submitted
                     Ralph Plankinton - Secretary

=== PAGE 11 ===
From Stella Pollock's Planning meeting
of the SJAA Glinton of May, 16, 1966.
  Present: K. Wells - B. Smith - Trudy Bell-Stella
Pollock - Ken Blackwell - D. Summers.
  Ralph Plankinton, ill -another six weeks to
recuperate:
  Board members going out - Leon Beull -
Ken Blackwell - Bruce Smith - Ralph P-
  Nominated to board: Trudy Bell Chuck Williams - Bruce Smith - Ralph Plankinton-
  Incumbents to 1967 Pollock - Allan Myers - D. Summers - Larry Dart- John Delaney.

      From Stella Pollock
Planning meeting of SJAA Club of
June, 20, 1966.
  Present: K. Wells - B. Smith - D Summers -
+ S. Pollock - T. Bell - Chuck Williams - L. Dart
  Banquet planned by K. Wells at Old Plantation, July 9, 1966- Walt Krumm to speak at Banquet.
  No regular meeting in July.
  Publicity- Wells - Circulation; T. Bell
  Director meteor Division; Don Summers-

  Harvard cards discontinued 4/10/3.

=== PAGE 12 ===
SJAA Club


I was absent at The board meetings of April-
May and June, 1966, due to illness Estrella
Pollack took notes of these meetings.
  I was also absent at The regular meetings
on The 1ST mondays in April - May and June
1966, due to illness.

                     Respectfully submitted
                     Ralph Plankinton-Secretary

Officers elected in June 1966 - To
serve to July 1, 1967
President: Bruce Smith
Vice Pres.: Don Summers
Secretary: Ralph Plankinton
Treasurer: Ken Blackwell
  Officers are automatically board members
Other activities chairman; these are also board
members &
Bulletin: Larry Dart
Librarian: Chuck Williams
Bulletin mailing: Trudy Bell
  Other board members: Estrella Pollock
John Delaney - Allen Meyris

=== PAGE 13 ===
San Jose Amateur Astronomy Club

Planning meeting of Mon. July 18, 1966.
The planning meeting of the SJAA club
was held at Leininger community Center. There
were 8 members present. They were: Pres
Bruce Smith - Vice Pres. Don Summers -
Secy. Ralph Plankinton - Estrella Pollock -
Joe Mancuso - Larry Dart - Trudy Bell
Allan Myers
The Sept.  meeting, meetings, will be Mon. Aug.29, 1966
          at Leininger community cent., because the
          first mon. in Sept. is Labor Day.
Mon. Aug 1  Program for the meeting is 2 NASA Films
1966     to be prot by John Delaney. - John Delaney has offered to instruct in mirror
          grinding; he will grind the clubs' 12½"
          mirror. - Much discussion on Telescope
          mirrors eyepieces, powers of magnification eyepieces size.
            Motion made by Larry Dart To purchase
          12" Mirror - eyepiece For approx. To 25
          Seconded by Don Summers. Motion carried.
            Star Party planned For Sat Aug. 13
          1966 on Hy. 9, 2 miles beyond skyline drive.
          There were about 35 present at The July 16, 1966 star party
on Hy. 9 viewing site with     Respectfully submitted,
about 10 Telescopes.            Ralph Plankinton

PS. There were about 20 people present with only
4 Telescopes at The Aug 13 66 star party on Hy. 9
viewing site.

=== PAGE 14 ===
Lick Observatory
VISITING THE OBSERVATORY - Closed To visitors on
                           Oct.28,1966. ¾ of staff
                                       moving out
The Observatory is open from 1 to 5 PM daily, during which time a guide is available
to conduct visitors through the Main Building and the dome of the 36-inch refractor.
The operation of the telescope will be explained, but it is, of course, not possible
to show objects through it in the daytime. No charge is made for admission. Located
about a half mile from the Main Building is the new 120-inch reflector, which can be
viewed from a glass-enclosed visitors' gallery daily between 10 AM and 5 PM. The
gallery is open on Friday evenings until the scientific work begins; except during
the winter months, those arriving at the beginning of the regular Friday evening
visitors' hours (see below) will have time to visit the 120-inch gallery before it
closes. To get to the 120-inch telescope, follow the signs on the road down from
the Main Building, park at the designated space opposite the Mount Hamilton School,
and walk along the marked upper road to the dome.

In favorable weather, visitors are also permitted, by ticket only, to view various
celestial objects through the 12-inch and 36-inch telescopes on Friday evenings
between 7 and 9 PM in standard time (8 and 10 PM daylight saving time). Tickets will
be distributed free of charge up to the number of visitors that can be accommodated
on any one night (approximately 250). Requests, specifying date and number of
tickets desired, should be sent to the Observatory at least two weeks in advance and
be accompanied by a stamped, self-addressed envelope. Although the Observatory is
only about 23 miles from the Santa Clara Street (Alum Rock Avenue) turnoff from U.S.
101 bypass in San Jose, the Mount Hamilton road is narrow and winding, and one
should plan on a driving time of 50 to 60 minutes each way.

Generally, one object is shown through each telescope on Friday nights. There is no
formal lecture or program, but the astronomers in charge discuss the objects shown
and endeavor to answer questions. The moon is shown, customarily, on the week
before full moon. Other visually interesting objects are selected from among the
planets, star clusters, nebulae, and double stars. During 1965 and 1966 the season
for viewing Jupiter and Saturn will be the fall and winter. In case of uncertain
weather, inquiry should be made by telephone (258-5061, San Jose Exchange) before
coming to the Observatory. The Observatory Office is open from 8 to 12 AM and 1 to
5 PM daily except Saturdays and Sundays. When bad weather prevents observation on
Friday evenings, one of the astronomers ordinarily gives a brief talk, illustrated
with lantern slides, on some astronomical topic.

The Observatory is closed to visitors on all University administrative holidays, and
also occasionally in periods of heavy snowfall. There are no accommodations on the
mountain for an overnight stay or for meals, refreshments, or gasoline. Fires are
not permitted on University property.

Public transportation to the Observatory is available via the Mount Hamilton Stage
Line which leaves the Greyhound Bus Depot in San Jose Mondays through Saturdays at
9:30 AM and returns at 3:30 PM. The round-trip fare is $2.75 (tax incl.) per person,
and the schedule usually allows about two hours at the Observatory. A special Friday
evening trip can be arranged by reservation in advance. The minimum round-trip fare
is $13.75 (tax incl.) for 1 to 4 passengers, with an extra charge of $2.75 (tax
incl.) for a fifth passenger. Arrangements for this special trip should be made by
contacting the Greyhound terminal before 9:30 AM or by telephoning the Stage Line
directly at 266-6325, San Jose Exchange. Taxis and rental automobiles are, of
course, also available in San Jose.

Mailing address:    Lick Observatory                      September, 1966
                    University of California
                    Mount Hamilton, California 95140

=== PAGE 15 ===
                                                   Sept 19, 1966
The planning of the SJAA Club was
held at The Leininger Community Center
Pres Bruce Smith called the meeting To
order at 8:05 PM.
  There were 7 members and one guest
present- The guest was Ralph Parish,
a high school math Teacher.
  There were some four Astronomy
present at The First mission making
class on Sept 7, at John Delany's house.
  Six people showed attended the star
party on Sept 17. Allen Myers was there
and reported clouds earlier but clearing
at 10 PM.
  Trudy brought the cookies (in the
shape of stars) to the planning meeting
  There was discussion on Astro-Photography
and developing Film.
  We are going to get Tickets To Lick
Observatory For the nite of Oct. 14. Ask
For about 30 Tickets. We will also
have a Star Party That nite below
the Crosley Telescope. Before/at/after time Ct
  Next regular meeting - Larry Dart will
Talk on developing Film - Bruce Smith will
Talk on cable telescope photography - slides
of Satellite Photos of The earth. Oct 3, 1966.
(over)  Paul Brasch is now writing the Newsletter.

=== PAGE 16 ===
Secretary - Ralph Plankinton


There wasn't any planning meeting in
Aug. due to a lack of a meeting place.
  Estrella Pollock called various members
on the phone who attended the WAA Convention in Aug. at The Thunderbolt Motel
in Burlingame, to make short talks of
their impressions of the convention at the
regular Sept. meeting. This meeting to be
held at on Mon Aug 28 because the first
mon. in Sept is Labor Day.

                     Secretary Ralph Plankinton

=== PAGE 17 ===
                                                   2/6/6

The SJAA Club planning meeting
of Oct.17, 1966 was held at Leininger Community Center Kelley Park S. Jose.
  Present: Pres. Bruce Smith - V Pres. Don
Summers - Sec Ralph Plankinton -
Paul Brasch- Stella Pollock - Allan
Myers - Chuck Williams - Trudy + Dell
  There were about 17 from the club present at The Lick open-house Fri. Oct 14. Seven
stayed for the star party just below observatory.
  Write 1/13/3). Masursky at
U.S. Geological Survey Dept. in Menlo Park
Ask him if he is willing to give talk
on Geology of Moon at Nov 7or7 Jan.
meeting or a later meeting. Ask him to
reply promptly. Walter Krumm has a program Lined
up for Dec 66 meeting.
  Write Dr. Phillips about Morrison Lecture
in Jan. or Feb. 1967.
  Lick Observatory will be closed to
The the public for Friday nite events after
after on Oct. 28, 1966. Three-fourths of the
STAFF are leaving to teach at Santa Cruz
Branch of the Univ. of California. The Observatory will be used for teaching astronomy
graduates only.
  There was a lengthy discussion on
the club's Future 12" Telescope construction.
All in Myers New telescope, [blacked out text] offered to machine the

=== PAGE 18 ===
parts.
  Stella served chocolate and Trudy's
graham crackers, which Trudy had forgotten
in Stella's car at The Lick Observatory
Frunck open house.
  Bruce Smith suggested a magnesium
tripod base and a 2" steel shaft.
  Meeting adjourned at 10PM.


                     Respectfully submitted,
                     Ralph Plankinton-Secretary

=== PAGE 19 ===
                                    IN REPLY REFER TO:

[US DEPT OF INTERIOR SEAL]

UNITED STATES
DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR
GEOLOGICAL SURVEY
Geologic Division
Branch of Astrogeology
345 Middlefield Road
Menlo Park, California
94025

                                    November 7, 1966

Mr. Ralph Plankinton
Secretary, San Jose Amateur Astronomy Club
10395 Judy Avenue
Cupertino, California 95014

Dear Mr. Plankinton:

We are extremely sorry that your letter of October 22 to Mr.
Masursky did not receive prompt attention. He has been out
of town a great deal lately and your letter became mislaid
for a few days. I hope you were able to find a speaker for
your program of November 7.

We will be happy to provide a speaker on the "Geology of
the Moon for your January meeting or any meeting thereafter
that you desire. The speaker would probably be myself or someone else in our office familiar with this subject inasmuch as
Mr. Masursky anticipates a continued heavy schedule. Please
do not hesitate to call us if we can be of assistance in
planning programs for your group.

Incidentally, Mr. Masursky has no grandchildren so you probably
have him mixed up with someone else.

                                    Very truly yours,
                                    [signature]
                                    Newell J. Trask
                                    Geologist


Mr. Trask was the speaker He at The
Jan.9, 1967 meeting.

=== PAGE 20 ===
The Planning meeting of the SJAA
Club of Mon. Nov. 21, 1966, was held at Leininger
Community Center.
  Present: Pres. Bruce Smith - V.P. Don
Summers - Sec Ralph Plankinton - Trudy Bell
Allan Myers - Larry Dart: GUEST: - Victor
Nikolashim - Roy Bollinger - and another
Young lad. Andy Jones
  Meeting began by looking at Don's
meteor pictures and discussion about ridges
and Talk about earthquakes. Larry Dart
received a Letter From the Univ. of Ariz.
concerning concerning observations of Slope
angles on moon. Larry claims observation
of a 67° angle.
  Bruce Smith brought up the subject
of our mailings to other clubs and organizations.
  Mr. Dare Goodreau is student in charge
of student of Physics Dept of Univ. of Santa
with the activities   Dr. John Draheyan is in charge
hope    Clara, Contact him about using
Univ   Univ. Telescope.
ect of Called Rickerd Memorial Observatory
do Velop Atte[?] Attention: Dave Goodreau, Univ. of Santa
address while   Clara.
School   Victor Nikolashim - 2200 Park Av
Home Address; Santa Clara, Cal. He offered to bring
his garnet due San Carlos, Cal. 94071

=== PAGE 21 ===
His Monochromator to the regular Feb.
1967 meeting and give a talk about it.
  IT was moved by Larry Dart; seconded
by Trudy Bell to drop 9 organizations
from our mailing List; Motion carried
  Ralph Plankinton read a letter from Newell
J. Trask of The Geological Survey in Menlo
Park. Mr. Trask of each is service the
we get to give a program at our Jan 9, 1967
regular meeting.
  Write to Univ. of Cal. For a Morrison
Lecture in Mar. 1967. Address: Dr. John Phillips
the There was a discussion to drop
those members who from the mailing list
who are delinquent in paying dues after
the Dec 5, 1966 on meeting and by the time of the
next bulletin.
  Meeting adjourned at 10:15PM.

Write letter To Mr. Newell J. Trask - Geologist
#12268 U.S. Dept. of the Interior, Geological Survey
Branch of Astrogeology - 345 Middlefield Rd.
                                    Menlo Park, Cal.
We accepted his offer to provide speaker for our
Jan 9, 1967 meeting Topic - Geology of the Moon
   Dr. Richard Haines (NASA K-Medical Research)
will speak on: "The Eye as an Optical Instrument"
at The regular Dec. 5, '66' meeting Respect submitted
                                    Ralph Plankinton

=== PAGE 22 ===
The planning meeting of The SJAA of
Dec. 19, 1966 was held at Leininger Community
Center, Kelly Park, SJ.
           President:
  Present: Bruce Smith - VP Don Summers
Sec. Ralph Plankinton - Max + Stella Pollock -
Lari Dart - Trudy Bell - Mike Ales
  Bruce proposed and was supported by The
board to write a Letter of Thanks to Dr Richard
Haines For his excellent ELecture + The
Literature he gave to the club.
  Bruce S. wanted to put binders on Dr
Haines Literature; Larry Dart offered
To bind it.
  Newell J. Trask, Geologist From the Geological Survey Branch of Astrogeology in Menlo
Park, will give a Lecture on Lunar Geology
with movie + slides. This will be presented
at our regular of Mon. Jan. 9, 1967.
  The Star Party at Foothill College was
rained out. - Fri. Dec. 9. Bruce S. + Gregg Napp
came.
  There Followed along general discussion.
  There was a vote To have the Foothill
College Star Party with a 3 day moon. It will
be Fri. Jan 13, 1967 at The Foothill College Observatory.
Refreshments supplied by Stella and
Trudy. Followed here & Meeting adjourned
at 10PM. Respectfully Submitted-RalphPlankinton
