=== PAGE 1 ===
San Jose Amateur Astronomy Club
Planning Meeting at of Jan,18,1965
at Estella & Max Pollack's house.

I. Members present: Estella & Max Pollack - Elmer
  Johnson - Walt Krumm - Larry Dart - Kevin
  Walls - Ralph Plankinton - Ken Bleckwell
II. Elmer Johnson read of proposed amendments
  to the Constitution of the Western Amateur Astronomy
  - member. Vote was taken and passed, the amendments
  were accepted as read.
III. A motion was made & carried to obtain a
  copy of the proceedings of the 1964 NAA convention
  in Denver. Cost $00    National Amateur Astronomy
                         Chamberlaion Observatory
I. Program for Feb.1, 1965:            Denver, Colo.
IV. Ronnie Jones, age 11, will give talk on Astro-Photography
  + how to took / by exposure down in Vegas Mt. saturn Telescope
  and in Skylab tele - Nov. 1964 - Kevin Walls will give
  talk on satellite tracking. "Walt Krumm will give"
  talk on "Constellation of the month" - Bruce Smith
  may talk on his telescope.

Ralph Plankinton
Secretary

=== PAGE 2 ===
San Jose Amateur Astronomy Club Feb.15, 1965

I. The planning meeting of the SJAA club was
  held at Elmer Johnson's house.
2. Members present: Elmer Johnson - Bruce Smith
  Max and Estella Pollack - Ralph Plankinton

3. Discussion about grazing occultation (on Jan-9-7-65)
  image of a 4th magnitude star by the moon
4. Discussion of next May. regular program. A film
  will be shown "Eclipse of the Quiet Sun" photographs
  taken from Alaska of the 7-20-64 eclipse of the sun.
  (a) Ralph Plankinton will give the "Constellation of
  the month: Gemini."
  (c) Kevin Walls will report on the grazing
    occultation of 2-7-65 on Cattle pt. in South
    San Jose, Cal. - Bruce will talk on his telescope.
5. A star party is tentatively planned for 3-6-65 at
  9:30 PM on the Skyline Dr.
6. There was some discussion on what happens to the
  board member who don't come to planning meetings.

Sent check for WAA Convention Proceedings
  on Jan. 26, 1965 - Chamberlaion Observatory
                     Denver, Colo. 80210

Ralph Plankinton - Secretary

=== PAGE 3 ===
San Jose Amateur Astronomy (882 4479) Walls no
Club            (Mar. 15, 1965)

I. Meeting Planning was held at Walt Krumm's house.
  Herman Ferrier?) will talk on clock drives on
  telescope mounted cameras for astro-photography
  at the next meeting of April 5, 1965.
III. Eight members attended came to the meeting of
  Mar. 15, 1965.
IV. Kevin will talk on "Jacobs Drive"
  mounts.    Meeting adjourned at 11 PM.
                           Sec. Ralph Plankinton

I. Planning meeting of S.J.A.A. for April 19, 1965
  was held at John Lewellyn's house: 2360 Rich-
  land (off Curtner) S. J. Dale.
II. Attendance: Mr. & Mrs. John Lewellyn, Max
  Estrella Pollack, Elmer Johnson, Larry
  Dart Bruce Smith.
III. Elmer's field, Roy E. Wilson of Lylerome Ob-
  serves Lab. will give a talk and demonstration of the Laser Beam.

Ralph Plankinton
Secretary

=== PAGE 4 ===
San Jose Amateur Astronomy Club

The meeting planning meeting of May 17, 1965 was
  held at the home of Estella & Pollack's house
I. Discussion of selecting 5 new board member
  here for yrs. 1965-66 and 1966-87.
  Board members: Nominations: Herman Ferrier,
  Estrella Pollack - Kevin Walls - Fred LeRacker -
  Elmer Johnson.
II. Bruce Smith wants to resign the Treasury job.
  Possible new treasurer, Ken Bleckwell-
III. Nominations for Vice pres.: John Delaney -
  Larry Dart
  Nomination for President: Kevin Walls
IV. Discussion of Club Banquet To be Held in July.
  Tres vs. report $161 - Dinner to be held on
  July 10, 1965 at the Coach House in Saratoga.
  Oldest apartment yet known.

V. Program for meeting of Mon. June 7, 1965: Bring
  your telescope, binoculars, or what you have
  to look at the stars and planets & give a description
  of it at the club meeting.
VI. Members present: Max & Estrella Pollack - Walt
  Krumm - Elmer Johnson - Bruce Smith -
  Ralph Plankinton       Secretary
          Respectfully submitted - Ralph Plankinton

=== PAGE 5 ===
San Jose Astronomy Club
Amt.

I. East Bay Astronomy Club's overnight star parties.
  June 26, 1965 - July 21    Aug. 25 - Ox Jumpam
  picnic year on Mt. Diablo, Cal.
II. The planning meeting of June 21, 1965, was held
  at Ken Bleckwell's house at 2346 Sunmor Ave,
  Mt. View, Cal.
III. Dr. Cyril Ponampperuma will give be
  the main speaker at the July 10, 1965 banquet.
  Banquet to be held at the Old Plantation in
  Sunnyvale.
IV. Members present were Ken Blackwell -
  Walt Krumm - Elmer Johnson - Ralph Plank-
  inton - Bruce Smith - Herman Ferrier - John Del-
  -aney - Estrella - Max Pollack - Larry Dart -
  Chuck Williams.
V. Discussion about who to call to sell banquet
  tickets to.
VI. Officers elected:
  Pres. Kevin Walls
  V. Pres. Bruce Smith
  Sec. Ralph Plankinton
  Tres. Ken Blackwell
  Bulletin Larry Dart
  Librarian - Chuck Williams

=== PAGE 6 ===
Ralph Plankinton
Secretary

=== PAGE 7 ===
San Jose Amt. Astronomy Club

The meeting of the SJAA of Mon. July 19, 1965
  was held at Larry Dart's house - 2401 Leigh
  Ave., San Jose.        Herman Ferrier
  Members present: Estrella Pollack - Elmer
  Johnson - Ken Blackwell - Larry Dart - Ralph
  Plankinton - Bruce Smith - Kevin Walls
  Forty three people attended the banquet of
  July 10, 1965 at the Old Plantation in Sunny-
  vale, Cal. Dr. Ponampperuma was the guest
  speaker; Topic: "Origins of Life."
  Larry Dart is building a new 8" telescope & mount.
  There was discussion on whether the club
  should mount the clubs 6" reflector at the Parrach
  club site. This now being scouted and when
  that is completed, it is likely the club will mount
  it there in the near future.
  There was discussion on methods of mailing
  and getting new material for the bulletin.
  Considerable discussion on finding
  a central private meeting place to keep our
  library & a shop to build telescopes.
  Joe Marion Dr. will give a short report
  on Project "Moonblink" at Foothill College (June
  7-13-65 - Elmer Johnson will give a talk on Mars
  at the Regular Aug. Meeting on Mon. 8-2-65

=== PAGE 8 ===
John Delaney is going to bring the club's 126"
  mirror blank - Kevin will give a progress report
  on the club + recruitment of members.
  Joe Marengo is Pres. of the Western Star Obs.
  Club.

Ralph Plankinton
Secretary

=== PAGE 9 ===
San Jose Amateur Astronomy Club

The meeting of Mon. Aug. 16, 1965 was
  held at John Delany's house.
  Members present: 1. John Delany +
2. Bruce Smith 3. Ken Blackwell 4. Estrella
  Pollack 5. Max Pollack 6. Don Sommers
7. Ralph Plankinton
  The Aug. 6, 1965 edition of Science
  Magazine contained the No.11 picture of
  the Mars probe.
  There was discussion on future meeting
  programs: A testing a speaker from Santran
  Cisco Planetarium to talk on Mars - 2 dist.
  ting a Morrison Lecture from U.C. to talk
  on Mars at the Oct. 1965 meeting 3. The
  Sept. 1965 meeting will be held on Mon.
  Aug. 30.
  Don Sommers will give a talk
  on his recent exploration of Meteor
  Crater, Ariz. He will also show his
  collection of meteorites and explain how
  and where he got them.
  John Delaney will get a film for
Sept.  the next regular meeting - also a projector.
meeting Kevin Walls may give a talk to fill out
  time. - The club's 6" reflector telescope will
  be ready to use in about 2 weeks.
  The Club's 12½" scope mounting
  committee consists of Bruce Smith - Kevin

=== PAGE 10 ===
Walls, 3. Herman Ferrier 4. Elmer Johnson

Motion: A motion was made that the 12½ mount consist-
  ing of a rotating committee proceed with plans to cons-
Ralph truct a mount for the 12½" scope carried.
Plankinton
Motion: A Motion was made to make John Delany
by chairman of the mirror & scope making committee
Estrella carried.
Pollack
Motion: A Motion was made to discontinue the Strol-
by ling Line Astronomer Magazine to save expenses.
Ken Carried.
Blackwell
  There was discussion of plans make to contact
  the Amateur Astronomy class instructor at
  the San Jose High School sometime in mid-
  Sept. (my spouse) to invite pupilse & their in-
  structors to attend the SJAA Club meetings.

Ralph Plankinton

Secretary

=== PAGE 11 ===
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, BERKELEY

BERKELEY • DAVIS • IRVINE • LOS ANGELES • RIVERSIDE • SAN DIEGO • SAN FRANCISCO    SANTA BARBARA • SANTA CRUZ

BERKELEY ASTRONOMY DEPARTMENT                      BERKELEY, CALIFORNIA  94720
(LEUSCHNER OBSERVATORY)

                                                   September 16, 1965


Mr. Ralph Plankinton, Secretary
San Jose Amateur Astronomers
10649 Gascoigne Drive
Cupertino, California

Dear Mr. Plankinton:

Dr. Leonard Kuhi of our department has agreed to give a Morrison Lecture
to the San Jose Amateur Astronomers on Monday, November 1. I find that
an October date is entirely out of the question.

May I suggest that you write to Dr. Kuhi regarding the topic of his lecture,
and the time and place of meeting. Dr. Kuhi would be willing to give you a
lecture on the solar system if you insist, although his special field of
interest is the topic of variable stars. I shall leave the choice of topic
to the two of you.

If this arrangement works out, all that I would need from you would be a
further letter after the lecture has been given. This letter should give
some indication of the size of the audience and the reception of the talk.
The letter should also include a $10.00 check payable to the Astronomical
Society of the Pacific to assist in the defrayal of Dr. Kuhi's travel
expenses.

You asked about the number of Morrison Lectures your club is eligible to
receive each year. Ordinarily this is limited to two--one during the fall
months, and one in the spring. Should you wish to have a spring Morrison
Lecture, please give me at least one month notice.

If you have any further question regarding arrangements for Dr. Kuhi's
lecture, please let me know.

                                                   Sincerely yours,
                                                   [signature]
Ask Dr. Kuhi to concentrate on                    John G. Phillips
Cepheid variables.                                 Chairman

JGP/clt

=== PAGE 12 ===
S.J.A.A. Club Planning Meeting

I. The SJAA Plankinton Planning meeting
  of Mon. Sept.20, 1965 was held at Estella
  Pollack's house. - 9 members were present
  Estrella Pollack - Kevin Walls - Bruce Smith
  Elmer Johnson - Chuck Williams - Ken
  Blackwell - Don Sommers - Ralph Plankinton.
  There was discussion about the club's 12½
  Telescope (To be built). Kevin had rough plans
  of the scope that the telescope committee had drawn
  it has a coude focus at the Eyebrow-
  ing of its axis
  Walt Krum attended the WAA Convention in
  Aug. in Reno, and he will give a report of the con-
  vention at the Oct regular meeting of SJAA.
  The club will have a star party Saturday
  (weather permitting) on 4/9, Saratoga pass.
  Ken Blackwell wrote going to see if the club
  can use the Rickard Obs of Santa Clara Univ.

Ralph Plankinton

Secretary

=== PAGE 13 ===
I. The SJAA planning meeting of Oct.18, 1965
  was held at Ken Blackwell's House.
  There were 8 members present.
  Dr. Leonard Kuhi will give talk on Variables
Club's "Telescope Loaned out at Nov 1, 65 meeting.
  Star party planned for Fri, Nov. 5 + Sat (early
  Am) Nov 6, on Hg. 9 Saratoga 3BP.
  Members present: Ken Blackwell - Elmer John-
  son - Larry Dart - Est. Pollack - Bruce Smith -
  Regular Monday meeting of Nov. 1, 1965
Dr. Kuhi gave Morrison Lecture on Variat-
  ables; meeting attended by 22 people.
  Walt Krum will try to get a member
  of NASA's comet (Oct. 1965)Icoya-Seki Probe
  to give a report of the probe - the 3rd & 4th
  Flights were successful.
  Don Sommers was nominated interim
  board member to replace Herman Ferrier,
  Nominated by Ralph Plankinton; seconded by
  Larry Dart; nomination carried -?

Ralph Plankinton
Secretary

=== PAGE 14 ===
The SJAA Club planning meeting of Nov.
15, 1965 was held at Estrella & Max Pollack's
house.
  Members present: Estrella & Max Pollack;
Don Sommers; Kevin Wells (Pres.); Bruce
Smith (VP); Ralph Plankinton (Sec.); Larry
Dart (newsletter); Ken Blackwell (Treas.).
  Graze occultation planned for Dec.1, 1965
at Quito School on Quito Rd.; ½ mile north
of The S.P. Tracks. Meeting Time 8:30PM
mid graze time 10:08 PM approximately.
  Walt Krum will contact a member of
Med. regular NASA's comet (Oct. 1965) Icoya-Seki Probe
Program Team to give a report of the probe. The 3rd
for & 4th Flights by the Team were successful.
  Don Sommers was Nominated as interim
board member to replace Herman Ferrier.
Nominated by Ralph Plankinton; seconded by Larry
Dart; carried. 8 board members present.
  John Delaney may get a couple of 12 ins films
will give a report of the graze occultation if
  visible.

Ralph Plankinton
Secretary

=== PAGE 15 ===
The SJAA club plannin meeting of Dec.13,
1965 was held at Larry Dart's house.
  Attended by: Larry Dart - Trudy Bell
Ralph Plankinton - Don Summers - Bruce Smith
Kevin Wells - Estrella & Pollack
  Trudy Bell has taken over the news-
letter mailing.
  The club is investigating (Keyers & Center) holding
to getting 3 club - room near
Kelly Park at the corner of Keyes & Center.
  Program for next meeting: Bruce Smith
will talk on Radio Astronomy. There will be a
NASA film
  treasury
  Last club ballot 18660 in July, 1965.
The club meeting place at the Rose Garden
Library costs $35 per meeting.
  Five-hundred 4¢ stamped envelopes cost
24.60 a Club dues (exclusive of the Sky + Telescope
Magazine) /00 per y+.

  There was a long discussion about the
financial status of the club - also the
loss of members over the increase in new
members. The number of newsletters mailed
out and to whom - (we mail to about 40 other
clubs, some very distant).
  The was discussion about how the club
could increase its' treasury. Such as: $ for

=== PAGE 16 ===
I. notify Public Star party with a charge for
  Looking Through The telescopes - A class in
  Basic astronomy with a fee. Edit The course
  Write To The astronomy / That 80's a donation.
  From as hopping center To hold a star party.
  Write to the Internal Revenue Service
  For information To get exempt From income
  Tax.
    It was moved that Larry Dart, seconded
  by Bruce Smith and carried to drop 7 of the
  mailings to other clubs + organizations.

  Next Planning Meeting will be
  at Pollacks - Jan. 17, 1966.

Ralph Plankinton
Secretary
