=== PAGE 1 ===
San Jose
                                               Bulletin
Amateur Astronomers
                                               Bob Malm, editor
                    FEBRUARY 1975              (941-1343)
SJAA Officers

President: Tom Mungall          257-3262        Board members: Dave Erickson  Bob Malm 6,-
Vice-president: Brian Day       266-8690                       Tom Curtis
Treasurer: Jerry Rattley        732-0202                       A.B. Gregory
Secretary: Norman Wild          252-8966                       Jim Van Nuland
                                                               Jim Vermilion

The Bulletin is dittoed this month to emphasize the fact that the club's treasury
is low due to the leasing of the club's observing site. Donations of any amount
will be cheerfully accepted. One of the club's officers has already donated one
month's payment of the lease. Don't misunderstand, the club is not bankrupt or
operating in the red, but it could use a bit of cash to see it through to the end
of the   fiscal year.

RECENT ACTIVITIES: The January meeting, held at Olinder center, was a very interesting
one. Mr. Northwang of Ames Reasearch (NASA) presented a talk and film on the findings
of Pioneer 10 plus the latest newconcerning Pioneer 11 and its Saturn flyby in 1979.
Early in Sept. 1979, if you have a large enough telescope diameter (like 100 feet) you
might be able to observe the tiny Pioneer 11 vehicle pass between the planet and its
rings. The answer to the mystery of the rings' structure may be answered at last. Mr.
Northwang was nice enough to pass out an excellent color reproduction of Jupiter, its red
spot, and one    of its satellites and its shadow, all taken by Pioneer 10.

The star party of January 11, held at our new observing site on Mt. Umanhum was well
attended. Unfortunately, it was windy and cold, but this failed to squelch the enthusi-
astic. Even after the wind knocked over and damaged your editor's newly completed 4"
Reflector (which took    over thirty years to complete), your editor would not give up.
Despite the conditions, everybody seemed to have a good time. Debbie Moore's cookies
kept moral high. One highlight of the evening was the observation of the tiny planetary
nebula in the open cluster M46. A late arrival was Jim Vermilion and his 15" 'scope.
I have yet to determine whether his instrument performed more like an optical instrument
or a box kite on that particular night.

COMING EVENTS: February 7, 1975 at 7:30 P.M. at Olinder Center: General Meeting. After
               Garry Rattley's second in his series  in which he discusses interesting
               objects in the various constellations, on Gemini and Monoceros, Tom Curtis
               will present a talk with slides on the Messier Catalog. Tom's talk is
               based on a paper he has written on the subject. (Incidentally, Garry's
               talks on the constellations which occurr during the first ten minuses, have
               received good comments from those present.) Refreshments will be served.

               February 15, 1975: Star party at the Mt. Umunhum site.

               March 7, 1975: Virgo (by Garry) and a talk on the building  and construction
               of Jim Vermilion's 15" telescope, plus bring-your-own-astroslides show.

               March 14, 1975: Board meeting at Jim Van Nuland's home.

               March 15, 1975: Star party     at Henry Coe State Park.

               April 4, 1975:  Frank Holden will return.

               May 9, 1975:  Board meeting at Bob Malm's home.

NEWS NOTES: Tom Mungall and Dave Erickson attended the W.A.A. meeting in Bakersfield
without Dr. Gregory who had a medical incident prior to departure. Word has it that Dr.
Gregory is doing well.

Nothing much else for this month. See you at the    February 7th meeting.
