=== PAGE 1 ===
                                          sjaa                              1

march '76  Bulletin

What's going on on the club?

March 5: Olinder Center  7:30 PM
The general meeting this month will feature Dr. Gareth Williams of San
Jose State University. Dr. Williams will deliver a fourty-five minute talk
on "Lasers in Astronomy". It would be appreciated if everyone holds any
questions until the speaker finishes. There will be an extended personal
business period afterwards.

March 27: Henery Coe State Park  Dusk till Dawn
This month's star party is again at the upper site near the entrance
to the park. If the weather cooperates, the many fine galaxies in Ursa Major
and Leo will be readily accessable to even small scopes.

April 2: Olinder Center 7:30 PM
Another of the S.J.A.A.'s famous equipment & slide nights is the main
attraction of April's general meeting. Start assembling your paraphernalia
for discussion and display now. I would like to see something from those
who have been shooting pictures but not showing them. You know who you are.

April 3: Half Moon Bay
The Astronomical Society of the Pacific is having a public star party.

April 10: K-MART Saratoga- Sunnyvale Rd.
Astronomy Day. This is the club's major public function of the year.
Everyone who comes, whether layman or astronomer, seems to enjoy this event
thoroughly. Most people like telescopes but have never seen one up close,
much less looked through one! If we start now, perhaps this Astronomy Day
will be as sucessful as the last lunar eclipse party.

April 30 to May 1: Fremont Peak
The A.A.N.C. has scheduled a three day star party.

Editorial
I often wonder why the same small crew shows up at most star parties.
Are the locations too remote? Maybe you don't like driving on mountain
roads at night? Perhaps it's the cost of the trip? Don't the darker skies
at our sites make the trip worth-while? If someone would like to come up
and doesn't/ can't drive, or doesn't know how to get there, speak up! We are
willing to organize a caravan to the site, including a lift for those who
want one.
    I hope you like the new format and the two new colums, Tech Talk and
Rattley Rattles, interesting and informative. Are there any comments?

Jack M. Zeiders
Editor

=== PAGE 2 ===
                                                                              2
                                          sjaa

Rattley Rattles

Commentary: I have been volunteered, by, I am told myself?!?! to write a
monthly column for our bulletin, so this is the first in a series. I will try
to write up something of interest each month or present some objects for general
viewing that will be visible at club star parties, clouds permitting.

This first article is going to deal with a matter that few probably know
a great deal about, except myself, and that is the club's discount plan with
Sky Publishing Corporation. You may have on occasion heard me mention this at
a club meeting, but at the last meeting it was stressed even more strongly and
several members seemed interested in it.

Before I go on, I need to make an important comment about the prices
quoted at the February meeting. The price of the Skalnate Pleso field atlas
was said to be $2.63 through the clubs discount plan. I found that recent
price hikes on some of Sky Publishing's offerings have affected this atlas.
It is now going to cost $3.15 (which in my opinion is still a bargain on an
excellent atlas). Now for the good news, the Becvar Catalogue which goes along
with it is still $7.60 as was quoted at the meeting; at least it is for now.

The following is a list of some of the more interesting,in my opinion, of
the Sky Publications available through the club's discount plan.

Publication                             Retail      Discount    Club
Skalnate Pleso - field edition
   Atlas of the Heavens                 $ 5.00      30% plus    $3.15
Skalnate Pleso - deluxe edition
   (multi-colored desk copy)            $14.00      20%         $11.20
Atlas Catalogue - II
   (goes well with the Skalnate
   Pleso atlases)                       $ 9.50      20%         $ 7.60
Revised New General Catalogue
   by J.W. Sulentic & W.G. Tifft        $10.50      20%         $ 8.40
Norton's Star Atlas (16th edition)      $12.50      20%         $10.00
Atlas of Deep Sky Wonders
   by Dr. Hans Vehrenberg               $22.00      15%         $18.70

This concludes the present partial list of the many Sky Publications which
are available to club members through the discount plan. If you are interested
in purchasing any of these, please see me at a meeting or star party or call.
All club members are eligible to use this plan, but only club members, all
discounts go through the treasurer, that's me, to Sky Publishing. Note: all
prices are subject to change without notice. Unfortunately, I have no control
over that.

Well, I hope I didn't bore you too badly, and I hope you found this information of interest. And so I'll let it go for now and see you at the next star
party or meeting.
                                        Astronomically Yours
                                        Gerald W. Rattley
                                        treasurer, SJAA

=== PAGE 3 ===
                                                                              3
                                          sjaa

tech talk

Here's a tip for those who are thinking of building or modifying a German
Equatorial mounting. Most people know that it is a good idea to keep the bearing
supports short and stocky, but few realize just how critical the distance between the front polar bearing and top dec. bearing really is. I recently took
apart my 12" telescope mounting (made from heavy-wall PG&E gas pipe) and sawed
off a 2" section of the upper declination housing. The result was to move the
telescope 2" closer to the polar shaftand, of course, the top dec. bearing
closer too. That relatively small distance is enough to make quite an improvement
in stability. The greatest improvement, however, came from being able to remove
almost fifty pounds of weight from the scope. This has resulted in much better
damping and controllability of the scope. the proof came at the first sky test
of the modified mount at the club star party at Henry Coe State Park on Jan 31.

It was one of those rare nights when the seeing (between the clouds) was
about eleven on a scale of ten. The twelve inch scope was raised to about one
thousand powerxon Saturn (well over the theoretical limit) and still gave very
good, VERY STABLE, images. Numerous fine divisions were found in the middle
ring, and one was found in the outer ring that none of us knew existed! The
planet itself presented bands and swirls clearly. Those of you who didn't come
to the star party missed a good one.

Donald S. Mc Glauflin

[THIS IS FIGURE: Technical diagram showing telescope mounting configuration with labeled parts including "Telescope", "Removed", "VANE", "INDENT", "INSERT", "Knob", "Setscrew", "ball bearing", "Camera", "Eyepiece", and "DIAGONAL MIRROR"]
